<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?><data><Agency_Priority_Goal><Agency_ID>25</Agency_ID><Agency_Name>Department of Education</Agency_Name><Agency_Priority_Goal_ID>5542</Agency_Priority_Goal_ID><Fiscal_Year>FY14-15</Fiscal_Year><APG_Header>Increase College Degree Attainment in America</APG_Header><APG_Statement>We will measure the overall college attainment goal, and the effectiveness of the college value and affordability initiatives that foster higher attainment rates, by focusing on the critical 25-34 year old cohort. By September 30, 2015, 45.6% of adults ages 25-34 will have an associate’s degree or higher, which will place the nation on track to reach the President’s goal of 60% attainment by 2020.
</APG_Statement><APG_Overview>GOAL OVERVIEW

Dramatically boosting completion rates for postsecondary certificates and degrees is essential for the United States to successfully compete in a global economy. The President set a goal in 2009 that, by 2020, the U.S. will have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. Meeting this goal will require millions of additional Americans to earn a postsecondary degree by the end of this decade—a 50 percent increase nationwide. New initiatives from the President’s College Value and Affordability Agenda are being implemented to help increase the college attainment rate, and the Department has proposed several new programs which, if funded, will significantly accelerate progress toward the goal. Starting from a baseline college degree attainment rate of 44.0 percent in 2012, we set annual targets projecting the annual increase to grow progressively each year above the four-year historical average of 0.7 percentage points:&amp;nbsp; 0.7, 0.9, 1.2, 1.6, 2.1, 2.8, 3.2, and 3.5. (The curve reflects the results of the intensified efforts, which have a future impact given the length of postsecondary programs.) Since the data for any given year are reported in the following year, the growth will lead to 60% of all Americans having an associate’s degree or higher (as reported in 2021, reflecting 2020 data; note that certificates are not included since the U.S. does not currently have a way to measure attainment of certificates in the population). The 45.6% rate in 2015 represents two years of growth from the baseline.

&amp;nbsp;

The President’s focus on educational attainment of American between the ages of 25-34 allows us to assess progress in preparing the next generation of U.S. workers and to benchmark for international comparisons. Nonetheless, college completion for all ages is important, including unemployed, under-skilled&amp;nbsp;and older workers, veterans and other underrepresented student categories.

&amp;nbsp;

KEY BARRIERS AND CHALLENGES

Success will depend in large part on the extent to which states reinvest in higher education and on whether both states and institutions (a) implement policies and programs to increase college access and success, (b) reduce costs and time to completion, (c) support accelerated learning opportunities, including dual enrollment, (d) develop and adopt effective and innovative practices that improve student outcomes, and (e) promote seamless transitions from secondary to postsecondary education and among higher education institutions. The Department will use its available resources and programs, administrative action, bully pulpit, technical assistance, and ability to convene stakeholders to drive collaboration and best practices, but has limited leverage to influence state policies and institutional practices without new programs that are specifically structured toward this goal.

&amp;nbsp;

&amp;nbsp;

EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS

States, Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs), Students and their Families, Businesses, Philanthropy, Not-for-profit Organizations, and other Federal Departments and Agencies.
</APG_Overview><Goal_Leaders><Goal_Leader><goal_leader_name>Ted Mitchell</goal_leader_name><goal_leader_title>Under Secretary</goal_leader_title><goal_leader_org>Office of the Under Secretary</goal_leader_org></Goal_Leader></Goal_Leaders><next_steps></next_steps><progress_update>Throughout fiscal years 2014 and 2015, the Department implemented several strategies to promote innovation and completion in postsecondary education. These efforts supported the Department in meeting this APG target with an actual educational attainment rate of 45.7 percent of adults ages 25-34 having an associated degree or higher. In FY 2014, the Department awarded the first round of grants in the First in the World program, which aims to promote evidence-based strategies and practices for college access and completion, focusing on low-income students. The Department collaborated with the Department of Labor in the fourth round of Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training (TAACCCT) grants to community colleges and consortia, which were awarded in September 2014; the program provides capacity-building grants to drive innovation and the development of model training programs at America’s community colleges and universities. The Department initiated several projects as well that continued into FY 2015 and are discussed below, including the development of the expanded College Scorecard, Gainful Employment regulations, and new Experimental Sites in the areas of competency-based learning, Federal Work Study, and prior learning assessments.

In FY 2015, the Department implemented the following actions:

Focusing on Completion through Grant Competitions


	Awarded grants for the FY 2015 First in the World grant competition. While the FY 2014 competition was focused on development grants, the 2015 competition included a tier for validation grants using practices based on research that meets the Department’s Moderate evidence of effectiveness standard.&amp;nbsp;Funded projects include a partnership of 10 community colleges to implement proactive and individualized student support services, informed by an early alert and advising system based in predictive analytics; incorporating new teaching and learning strategies into the curriculum and student experience at a Historically Black College; and creating seamless transfer of lower-division general education requirements across participating institutions based on demonstration of student learning outcomes regardless of courses or credits completed. The Department is developing priorities for a FY 2016 competition should the program continue to be funded by Congress.
	Incorporated a competitive preference priority to increase postsecondary access, affordability and completion into the Predominantly Black Institutions grant competition.
	Incorporated two competitive preference priorities in the Hispanic-Serving Institutions grant competition:&amp;nbsp; one to support tutoring, counseling, and student service programs designed to improve academic success, including innovative and customized instruction courses (which may include remedial education and English language instruction) designed to help retain students and move the students rapidly into core courses and through program completion; and one to develop and implement high-quality online or hybrid credit-bearing learning opportunities that reduce the cost of higher education, reduce time to degree completion, or allow students to progress at their own pace.
	Awarded $18 million in new awards under the Strengthening Institutions Program&amp;nbsp;to help eligible IHEs become self-sufficient and expand their capacity to serve low-income students by providing funds to improve and strengthen the academic quality, institutional management, and fiscal stability of eligible institutions. The 2015 competition gave competitive preference to applicants proposing evidence-based strategies.
	
	Enabling Better Decision-Making and Student Outcomes through Consumer Information
	
	Unveiled the expanded College Scorecard, a comparison tool that provides a wealth of customizable data—including many important metrics that have not been published before—so students and families can make informed comparisons and choices based on the criteria most important to them. Better informed decisions will increase the likelihood that a student will complete his or her educational program. The Department also made the data behind the Scorecard publically available in order to jumpstart efforts across the country to develop meaningful metrics for accountability. The Department has already started planning for enhancements to the Scorecard for FY 2016, beginning with a Technical Review Panel comprising higher education experts on December 2-3, 2015.
	Published final regulations on Gainful Employment and began implementing the regulations, which took effect July 1, 2015. The regulations aim both to inform students about completion, debt, and earnings for certain types of occupation-oriented programs, and remove access to Title IV federal student aid funds for programs that do not meet certain standards.
	Launched the Reach Higher Career App Challenge in collaboration with the Office of the First Lady in October 2015. This competition is designed to promote the development of mobile app solutions that will help students navigate education and career pathways, including career and technical education (CTE).
	
	Fostering Innovation and Completion through Convenings
	
	Developed communities of practice among minority serving community colleges. Lead institutions have been identified, recruited and trained. Two communities of practice have launched. The Department convened these communities of practice and others on November 16-17, 2015 for the “Student Success at Minority Serving Institutions conference,” along with federal agencies, private funders, and researchers. The purpose of the communities of practice and the convening is to improve student success at these institutions.
	Co-hosted with the White House a College Opportunity Summit on December 4, 2015 focusing on completion and affordability, as well as partnerships between K-12 and higher education that promote educational quality and seamless transitions from high school to college. Almost three hundred commitments were announced at the summit to improve college opportunities for young people in communities across the country through college readiness partnerships, leveling the playing field in college advising, improving STEM learning and degree completion for underrepresented students, and helping more students complete their degrees.
	
	Supporting Completion with FY 2016 Budget Proposals
	
	Proposed a new College Opportunity and Graduation Bonus Program, which would provide $7 billion in mandatory budget authority over 10 years to support colleges that successfully enroll and graduate a significant number of low- and moderate-income students on time and encourage all institutions to improve their performance.
	Proposed a new CTE Innovation program, the American Technical Training Fund, which would support the development and implementation of new models and practices at the local level as well as systemic reform of state policies and practices.
	Proposed America’s College Promise, which would provide students with two years of free community college and would require key reforms to ensure that more students successfully graduate with at least a two-year degree.
	
	Improving Research and Information on Successful Practices
	
	Published an RFA notice in April 2015 announcing a competition to establish a Research Network on Scalable Practices to Support College Completion. The Department’s Institute of Education Sciences intends to award the grant during the first quarter of FY 2016.
	Announced new Experimental Sites initiatives in the areas of competency-based education, Federal Work Study, and prior learning assessments. Projects have been approved for the Federal Work Study experiment. It is taking longer than anticipated to process amended Program Participation Agreements for the institutions that applied for the competency-based education and prior learning assessment experiments; the Department now expects that those experiments will be approved in FY 2016.
	Launched a National Activities Project to study the subject of Career &amp;amp; Technical Education (CTE) stackable certificates. The purpose of this activity is to build the capacity of regional consortia of community colleges or state community and technical college systems to improve CTE credential attainment rates at community colleges through a framework of stackable certificates. The framework includes a progression of credentials—entry-level, intermediate, and advanced—each targeted to learners at a specific point along the education continuum. As students raise their skill levels by earning a certificate, they will earn an increasing number of college credits in their technical field and make progress toward an associate’s degree and beyond. During the project’s first year, the Department will gather information and convene knowledgeable stakeholders. During the second year, the Department will provide technical assistance to the field.
	
	&amp;nbsp;

	Strengthening Completion for Non-Traditional Populations
	
	Published Notices of Proposed Rulemaking in April 2015 to implement the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA). WIOA reforms adult education training and services, including in the areas of English language acquisition and vocational rehabilitation for individuals with disabilities. The Department’s intends to publish the final rules implementing WIOA in early spring 2016.
	Launched a National Activities Project to align adult education with developmental education (curriculum, counseling, etc.) by documenting and disseminating best practices; this two-year project will culminate in the dissemination of information to adult education providers during the last six months of 2017.
	Collaborated with the Departments of Labor and Health and Human Services, and with the Corporation for National and Community Service and the Institute of Museum and Library Services, to develop the Performance Partnership Pilot for Disconnected Youth competition. Nine pilots were announced in October 2015 to test the hypothesis that additional flexibility for states, localities, and tribes, in the form of blending funds and obtaining waivers of certain programmatic requirements, can help overcome some of the significant hurdles that States, localities, and tribes may face in improving outcomes for disconnected youth. A Notice of Proposed Priorities for the FY 2016 competition was published in October as well.
	Launched a Second Chance Pell Grant pilot through the Experimental Sites program. Research indicates that correctional education programs for prisoners reduce recidivism rates. The goal of this limited pilot program is to increase access to high-quality educational opportunities and help incarcerated individuals successfully transition out of prison and back into the classroom or the workforce.
	Incorporated metrics to increase STEM graduation rates, particularly among under represented student populations and communities, in the work plan of the Federal Coordination in STEM Education Undergraduate Interagency Work Group, which consists of approximately 12 federal agencies/departments.
	Convened with the White House a group of 50 leading higher education experts for a discussion of innovation in higher education. Participants spent the day considering opportunities for innovation on which the federal government and others could take action expediently, and were led through a design-thinking workshop about how online learning tools can catalyze improvements in postsecondary education.

</progress_update><themes></themes><contributing_programs_and_other_factors>CONTRIBUTING PROGRAMS

Major Discretionary Programs Supporting Goal 1 (http://www2.ed.gov/about/reports/annual/2015plan/2013-2015-apr-app-plan-...):


	Adult basic and literacy education State grants
	Federal TRIO programs
	First in the World


For additional programs see Appendix C of the Department’s FY2013 Annual Performance Report and FY2015 Annual Performance Plan (http://www2.ed.gov/about/reports/annual/2015plan/2013-2015-apr-app-plan-...).
</contributing_programs_and_other_factors></Agency_Priority_Goal><Strategic_Goals><Strategic_Goal><id>499</id><strategic_goal_header>Postsecondary Education, Career and Technical Education, and Adult Education</strategic_goal_header><strategic_goal_statement>Increase college access, affordability, quality, and completion by improving postsecondary education and lifelong learning opportunities for youths and adults.
</strategic_goal_statement><strategic_goal_overview>Dramatically boosting completion rates for bachelor’s and associate degrees is essential for Americans to compete in a global economy. The President thus set a goal in 2009—that, by 2020, the U.S. will have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. Meeting this goal will require millions of additional Americans to earn a bachelor’s or an associate degree or certificate by the end of this decade—a 50 percent increase nationwide. The President has also challenged every American to complete at least one year of higher education or career training—at a two- or four-year postsecondary institution, or through a vocational training program or apprenticeship.
 
The President’s agenda for postsecondary reform calls for a spirit of shared responsibility in addressing college access, affordability, quality, and the imperative for students to complete their certificates or degrees. Neither the federal government alone, nor any other single sector, can make the investments or create changes needed to move our country forward. This work requires unprecedented collaboration and innovation.
 
And, increased college enrollment is not enough. To advance the nation toward achieving the 2020 goal, institutions of higher education must ensure that students successfully complete with degrees and certificates. In addition, as part of its career and technical education (CTE) transformation strategy, the Department must help support state- and industry-led efforts to introduce students to careers and provide them with the knowledge and skills to enter technical fields. Furthermore, to ensure a sustainable national economy, the Department should work with the National Science Foundation and other agencies to help colleges and universities increase the enrollment and completion rates of students with degrees and certificates in fields related to science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM).
 
The Department must ensure that all students—recent high school graduates and adult learners alike—are well prepared for college and careers, help more of them enroll in postsecondary education, and increase the number of those who complete programs of study with a degree or certificate.
 
Prior to entering postsecondary education, prospective students need easily accessible information on the cost of attendance, career placement and graduation rates, college loan default rates, earnings of graduates, public-service and private-sector opportunities, loan management options, and other subjects crucial to understanding the affordability and value of the postsecondary institutions and/or programs of study that they are considering. Students deserve to know that, whether they enter a college, university, postsecondary career training program, or adult education program, the credential they earn will be affordable and its value will be recognized as an indication that they possess the necessary knowledge and skills for success in the workplace and in life.
 
Providing federal student aid in a simple, reliable, and efficient manner is the main way that the Department supports college access, affordability, quality, and completion. In FY 2012, the Department delivered nearly $142 billion in grants, work-study, and loan assistance to approximately 15 million postsecondary students and their families. These students attended approximately 6,200 institutions of postsecondary education accredited by dozens of agencies. In addition, the Department administers $2 billion annually in grants to strengthen postsecondary institutions and promote college readiness, and another $2 billion in grant funds for CTE, adult education (including literacy and citizenship education), and correctional education to help adults secure the skills that equip them for work, civic participation, and lifelong learning.
 
The Department has already taken significant steps to increase college access, affordability, quality, and completion. Through the SAFRA Act, passed as part of the Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (HCERA), Congress ended student loan subsidies to banks, saving billions of dollars that are now used for financial aid through the Pell Grant program and for reducing borrowers’ monthly repayment amounts. Resources developed by the Department, such as the College Affordability and Transparency Center, the Financial Aid Shopping Sheet, the College Scorecard, and a consolidated student aid website from the Department’s Federal Student Aid (FSA) office (www.studentaid.gov), now provide students and families with better tools for informed decision-making. Additionally, as generally described in FSA’s Five Year Strategic Plan for FY 2012-16, FSA recently launched two new products.  The first product is the Financial Aid Toolkit, which provides free and ready-made resources online for organizations wishing to engage students about financial aid.  The second is the Financial Awareness Counseling Tool (FACT), an online, interactive loan counseling tool that helps students and families better manage their finances and understand their financial obligations as borrowers.  FSA initiated the Integrated Student Experience (ISE) initiative to establish an integrated, customer-focused web experience for students, parents and borrowers to facilitate decision-making about funding postsecondary education.  Finally, the Department has simplified the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) so it is easier and faster for students to apply for aid.
 
During the next four years, the Department will build on these efforts to ensure that all Americans, regardless of background, will have the opportunity to access and complete an affordable postsecondary degree or other postsecondary credential.
How will we measure success?  
 
The Department will use the following indicators to measure its success in improving college access and affordability, college completion, academic quality, and STEM pathway opportunities.
 
Postsecondary Education, Career and Technical Education, and Adult Education Indicators of Success
 
Reduce rate of increase in average net price of public two- and four-year institutions
Decrease number of low-performing institutions
Increase degree attainment among 25-34 year old age cohort
Increase retention rate of first-time degree-seeking undergraduates
Increase number of STEM postsecondary credentials awarded
Percent of high school seniors filing a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
Increase the national earnings of adults and transition-age youth with disabilities, including those with significant disabilities
Increase the number of  stakeholders, including Vocational Rehabilitation State Directors and other State Vocational Rehabilitation staff who express knowledge of NIDRR[1] grantee research
Increase the number of NIDRR supported grantee projects providing training to stakeholders on disability issues
 
What could hold us back?  What’s beyond our control?  (External Risk Factors)
The Department will encourage states and institutions of higher education to adopt policies and strategies to improve student outcomes and even out or minimize increases in the cost of tuition, books, and related items. Success will depend, to some degree, on the extent to which states and institutions (a) implement policies and programs to increase student retention and persistence to graduation, (b) accelerate college completion, (c) offer dual high school and postsecondary enrollments, (d) develop and use online, open‑source materials, (e) better align high school completion and postsecondary entrance requirements, (f) better align transfer requirements that lead to baccalaureate degrees, and (g) invest in higher education at the state level.  The Department has limited ability to influence such outcomes without new programs that are specifically structured to drive this kind of change. In addition, modifications to statewide longitudinal and other data systems are necessary to better track the nation’s progress in improving access to postsecondary education, completion of postsecondary degrees and certificates, and success in the workforce and society.  Finally, high-quality technical assistance is needed to address the limited capacity of states and school districts to advance programs in high-need areas, such as STEM.
The nation also sorely needs the reauthorization of key federal legislation, including the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), the Workforce Investment Act (WIA), the Higher Education Act (HEA), and the Career and Technical Education Act (CTEA), in order to support the implementation of more rigorous high school standards and postsecondary and adult education reforms that will increase student achievement and career and civic success.  Moreover, postsecondary institutions must increase their capacity to serve the growing number of Americans who require education and/or training beyond high school to compete in the workplace, particularly the tens of millions of Americans who have basic literacy and workforce training needs.  In an economy where state funding for higher education is threatened, institutions are struggling to serve more students with fewer resources.  In addition, many students arrive at college unprepared for college-level work. This need for remediation diverts resources that would be better directed toward supporting students’ persistence in and completion of their education.  To be effective in all of these areas, postsecondary institutions must continue to find ways to be innovative and productive in providing educational services—even as they collaborate with the pre-K – 12 sector to improve the college- and career-readiness of learners.
Historically, as unemployment rates decline, the number of young adults immediately pursuing a postsecondary education decreases.  This, in turn, potentially decreases FAFSA completion rates. In addition, other economic factors contributed to the large and likely unsustainable increases in FAFSA submissions for several cycles through 2012.  With a still-improving economy, completion rates have yet to stabilize and may affect overall FAFSA completion rates.  To address these external factors, the Department and FSA will continue to focus efforts on increasing FAFSA accessibility and ease of use.  To ensure a positive experience for users, FSA will enhance partnerships with states, federal agencies, nonprofits, and the private sector to ensure a positive experience for users.
 
[1] National Institute on Disabilities and Rehabilitation Research.
</strategic_goal_overview><strategic_goal_sequence>1</strategic_goal_sequence></Strategic_Goal></Strategic_Goals><Strategic_Objectives></Strategic_Objectives><Indicators></Indicators></data>