<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?><data><Strategic_Objective><Agency_Code>18</Agency_Code><Agency_Acronym>ED</Agency_Acronym><Strategic_Objective_ID>621</Strategic_Objective_ID><Strategic_Objective_Header>Quality</Strategic_Objective_Header><Themes><Theme>Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services</Theme></Themes><Strategic_Objective_Statement>Foster institutional value to ensure that postsecondary education credentials represent effective preparation for students to succeed in the workforce and participate in civic life.
</Strategic_Objective_Statement><Strategic_Objective_Overview></Strategic_Objective_Overview><Strategic_Objective_Lead_Office>Office of the Under Secretary</Strategic_Objective_Lead_Office><Strategic_Objective_Progress_Update>The Department pursued several rulemaking activities during FY 2015 on higher education topics, including the use of prepaid debit cards at IHEs; teacher preparation programs; and implementation of WIOA, which reforms adult education training and services, including in the areas of English language acquisition and vocational rehabilitation for individuals with disabilities. Most significantly, the Department implemented the Gainful Employment regulations, which took effect July 1, 2015, and began collecting data from institutions. The regulations foster program quality through transparency and accountability. Institutions will be required to notify students about completion rates as well as debt and earnings outcomes for certain types of occupational-oriented programs; programs that do not meet established standards risk losing eligibility for federal student aid funds. The Department also implemented its state authorization regulations on July 1 and reminded institutions and states of dual requirements that 1) IHEs must be authorized to operate in a given state by the appropriate state agency, and 2) that agency must have a process for handling student complaints.

The Department continues to encourage the higher education community to focus on innovative, transparent, and validated approaches to student learning. Through the Experimental Sites initiative, the Department announced experiments in the areas of competency-based learning, Federal Work Study, and prior learning assessments. The results of these experiments will guide future policy decisions. The Department and the White House convened a group of 50 leading higher education experts for a discussion of innovation in higher education. Participants spent the day considering opportunities for innovation on which the federal government and others could take action expediently, and were led through a design-thinking workshop about how online learning tools can catalyze improvements in postsecondary education.

The Department awarded 18 First in the World grants totaling $60 million, with nine of the winning applications awarded to minority-serving institutions. The program focuses on high-need students and promotes evidence-based strategies and practices for college access and completion. Funded projects include a partnership of community colleges to implement proactive and individualized student support services, informed by an early alert and advising system based in predictive analytics; incorporating new teaching and learning strategies into the curriculum and student experience at an Historically Black College; and creating seamless transfer of lower-division general education requirements across participating institutions based on students’ demonstration of learning outcomes regardless of courses or credits completed. The Department, through a contractor, will provide technical assistance to assist all grantees in conducting rigorous project evaluations. Those projects showing evidence of success will serve as models for possible dissemination or could be eligible for future validation and scale-up grants.

The Department awarded 40 grants totaling $17.5 million in the Strengthening Institutions Program (SIP).[1] This program helps postsecondary schools expand their capacity to serve low-income students by providing funds to improve and strengthen academic quality, institutional management, and fiscal stability, as well as build a framework to help students complete college. For the FY 2015 competition, the Department included a competitive preference priority supporting programs, practices, or strategies that are based on rigorous evidence.

The Department created an interagency task force on for-profit schools, including the Departments of Education, Defense, Justice, Labor, the Treasury, and Veterans Affairs, as well as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Federal Trade Commission, and the Securities and Exchange Commission. The task force established a working group to focus on enforcement-related issues.

The Department collaborated with the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Corporation for National and Community Service, and the Institute of Museum and Library Services to develop Performance Partnership Pilots (P3) for Disconnected Youth. Nine pilots were announced in October 2015 that will test the hypothesis that additional flexibility for states, localities, and tribes, in the form of blending funds and obtaining waivers of certain programmatic requirements, can help overcome some of the significant hurdles that states, localities, and tribes may face in providing intensive, comprehensive, and sustained service pathways and improving outcomes for disconnected youth. Proposed priorities, requirements, definitions, and selection criteria for a second competition are under development (subsequently published in October as well).

In collaboration with the National Economic Council, the Department of Labor, and the Aspen Institute, the Department held an UpSkill Summit at the White House on April 24, 2015. One hundred employers made commitments to help millions of frontline workers develop their skills, training and credentials. The Department secured similar commitments from national and international labor unions and labor-management collaborations.

As part of the President’s commitment to double the number of apprenticeships in the country, the Department collaborated with the Department of Labor and the Office of the Vice President to secure over 200 commitments from community colleges and their Registered Apprenticeship partners to grant college credits and degrees to individuals who hold apprenticeship program completion certificates.

The Department surpassed its FY 2015 target for reducing the number of low-performing institutions—i.e., those with high student loan cohort default rates and below average completion rates. However, the Department proposes to replace this metric in FY 2016 with other metrics that take advantage of better data available through the expanded College Scorecard.

&amp;nbsp;


[1] FY 2015 awards listed at http://www2.ed.gov/programs/iduestitle3a/awards.html.


</Strategic_Objective_Progress_Update></Strategic_Objective><Strategic_Goals><Strategic_Goal><id>499</id><strategic_goal_header>Postsecondary Education, Career and Technical Education, and Adult Education</strategic_goal_header><strategic_goal_statement>Increase college access, affordability, quality, and completion by improving postsecondary education and lifelong learning opportunities for youths and adults.
</strategic_goal_statement><strategic_goal_overview>Dramatically boosting completion rates for bachelor’s and associate degrees is essential for Americans to compete in a global economy. The President thus set a goal in 2009—that, by 2020, the U.S. will have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. Meeting this goal will require millions of additional Americans to earn a bachelor’s or an associate degree or certificate by the end of this decade—a 50 percent increase nationwide. The President has also challenged every American to complete at least one year of higher education or career training—at a two- or four-year postsecondary institution, or through a vocational training program or apprenticeship.
 
The President’s agenda for postsecondary reform calls for a spirit of shared responsibility in addressing college access, affordability, quality, and the imperative for students to complete their certificates or degrees. Neither the federal government alone, nor any other single sector, can make the investments or create changes needed to move our country forward. This work requires unprecedented collaboration and innovation.
 
And, increased college enrollment is not enough. To advance the nation toward achieving the 2020 goal, institutions of higher education must ensure that students successfully complete with degrees and certificates. In addition, as part of its career and technical education (CTE) transformation strategy, the Department must help support state- and industry-led efforts to introduce students to careers and provide them with the knowledge and skills to enter technical fields. Furthermore, to ensure a sustainable national economy, the Department should work with the National Science Foundation and other agencies to help colleges and universities increase the enrollment and completion rates of students with degrees and certificates in fields related to science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM).
 
The Department must ensure that all students—recent high school graduates and adult learners alike—are well prepared for college and careers, help more of them enroll in postsecondary education, and increase the number of those who complete programs of study with a degree or certificate.
 
Prior to entering postsecondary education, prospective students need easily accessible information on the cost of attendance, career placement and graduation rates, college loan default rates, earnings of graduates, public-service and private-sector opportunities, loan management options, and other subjects crucial to understanding the affordability and value of the postsecondary institutions and/or programs of study that they are considering. Students deserve to know that, whether they enter a college, university, postsecondary career training program, or adult education program, the credential they earn will be affordable and its value will be recognized as an indication that they possess the necessary knowledge and skills for success in the workplace and in life.
 
Providing federal student aid in a simple, reliable, and efficient manner is the main way that the Department supports college access, affordability, quality, and completion. In FY 2012, the Department delivered nearly $142 billion in grants, work-study, and loan assistance to approximately 15 million postsecondary students and their families. These students attended approximately 6,200 institutions of postsecondary education accredited by dozens of agencies. In addition, the Department administers $2 billion annually in grants to strengthen postsecondary institutions and promote college readiness, and another $2 billion in grant funds for CTE, adult education (including literacy and citizenship education), and correctional education to help adults secure the skills that equip them for work, civic participation, and lifelong learning.
 
The Department has already taken significant steps to increase college access, affordability, quality, and completion. Through the SAFRA Act, passed as part of the Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (HCERA), Congress ended student loan subsidies to banks, saving billions of dollars that are now used for financial aid through the Pell Grant program and for reducing borrowers’ monthly repayment amounts. Resources developed by the Department, such as the College Affordability and Transparency Center, the Financial Aid Shopping Sheet, the College Scorecard, and a consolidated student aid website from the Department’s Federal Student Aid (FSA) office (www.studentaid.gov), now provide students and families with better tools for informed decision-making. Additionally, as generally described in FSA’s Five Year Strategic Plan for FY 2012-16, FSA recently launched two new products.  The first product is the Financial Aid Toolkit, which provides free and ready-made resources online for organizations wishing to engage students about financial aid.  The second is the Financial Awareness Counseling Tool (FACT), an online, interactive loan counseling tool that helps students and families better manage their finances and understand their financial obligations as borrowers.  FSA initiated the Integrated Student Experience (ISE) initiative to establish an integrated, customer-focused web experience for students, parents and borrowers to facilitate decision-making about funding postsecondary education.  Finally, the Department has simplified the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) so it is easier and faster for students to apply for aid.
 
During the next four years, the Department will build on these efforts to ensure that all Americans, regardless of background, will have the opportunity to access and complete an affordable postsecondary degree or other postsecondary credential.
How will we measure success?  
 
The Department will use the following indicators to measure its success in improving college access and affordability, college completion, academic quality, and STEM pathway opportunities.
 
Postsecondary Education, Career and Technical Education, and Adult Education Indicators of Success
 
Reduce rate of increase in average net price of public two- and four-year institutions
Decrease number of low-performing institutions
Increase degree attainment among 25-34 year old age cohort
Increase retention rate of first-time degree-seeking undergraduates
Increase number of STEM postsecondary credentials awarded
Percent of high school seniors filing a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
Increase the national earnings of adults and transition-age youth with disabilities, including those with significant disabilities
Increase the number of  stakeholders, including Vocational Rehabilitation State Directors and other State Vocational Rehabilitation staff who express knowledge of NIDRR[1] grantee research
Increase the number of NIDRR supported grantee projects providing training to stakeholders on disability issues
 
What could hold us back?  What’s beyond our control?  (External Risk Factors)
The Department will encourage states and institutions of higher education to adopt policies and strategies to improve student outcomes and even out or minimize increases in the cost of tuition, books, and related items. Success will depend, to some degree, on the extent to which states and institutions (a) implement policies and programs to increase student retention and persistence to graduation, (b) accelerate college completion, (c) offer dual high school and postsecondary enrollments, (d) develop and use online, open‑source materials, (e) better align high school completion and postsecondary entrance requirements, (f) better align transfer requirements that lead to baccalaureate degrees, and (g) invest in higher education at the state level.  The Department has limited ability to influence such outcomes without new programs that are specifically structured to drive this kind of change. In addition, modifications to statewide longitudinal and other data systems are necessary to better track the nation’s progress in improving access to postsecondary education, completion of postsecondary degrees and certificates, and success in the workforce and society.  Finally, high-quality technical assistance is needed to address the limited capacity of states and school districts to advance programs in high-need areas, such as STEM.
The nation also sorely needs the reauthorization of key federal legislation, including the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), the Workforce Investment Act (WIA), the Higher Education Act (HEA), and the Career and Technical Education Act (CTEA), in order to support the implementation of more rigorous high school standards and postsecondary and adult education reforms that will increase student achievement and career and civic success.  Moreover, postsecondary institutions must increase their capacity to serve the growing number of Americans who require education and/or training beyond high school to compete in the workplace, particularly the tens of millions of Americans who have basic literacy and workforce training needs.  In an economy where state funding for higher education is threatened, institutions are struggling to serve more students with fewer resources.  In addition, many students arrive at college unprepared for college-level work. This need for remediation diverts resources that would be better directed toward supporting students’ persistence in and completion of their education.  To be effective in all of these areas, postsecondary institutions must continue to find ways to be innovative and productive in providing educational services—even as they collaborate with the pre-K – 12 sector to improve the college- and career-readiness of learners.
Historically, as unemployment rates decline, the number of young adults immediately pursuing a postsecondary education decreases.  This, in turn, potentially decreases FAFSA completion rates. In addition, other economic factors contributed to the large and likely unsustainable increases in FAFSA submissions for several cycles through 2012.  With a still-improving economy, completion rates have yet to stabilize and may affect overall FAFSA completion rates.  To address these external factors, the Department and FSA will continue to focus efforts on increasing FAFSA accessibility and ease of use.  To ensure a positive experience for users, FSA will enhance partnerships with states, federal agencies, nonprofits, and the private sector to ensure a positive experience for users.
 
[1] National Institute on Disabilities and Rehabilitation Research.
</strategic_goal_overview><themes></themes></Strategic_Goal></Strategic_Goals><Agency_Priority_Goals></Agency_Priority_Goals></data>