<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?><data><Strategic_Objective><Agency_Code>18</Agency_Code><Agency_Acronym>ED</Agency_Acronym><Strategic_Objective_ID>631</Strategic_Objective_ID><Strategic_Objective_Header>Equitable Educational Opportunities</Strategic_Objective_Header><Themes><Theme>Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services</Theme></Themes><Strategic_Objective_Statement>Increase all students’ access to educational opportunities with a focus on closing achievement gaps, and remove barriers that students face based on their race, ethnicity, or national origin; sex; sexual orientation; gender identity or expression; disability; English language ability; religion; socioeconomic status; or geographical location.
</Strategic_Objective_Statement><Strategic_Objective_Overview></Strategic_Objective_Overview><Strategic_Objective_Lead_Office>Office for Civil Rights</Strategic_Objective_Lead_Office><Strategic_Objective_Progress_Update>Throughout FY 2015, the Department continued its efforts to expand equitable educational opportunities through its budget priorities, grants, and initiatives in the P–12 and postsecondary spaces, as well as through interagency collaborations and taskforces.

The Department has placed increased emphasis on ensuring educational equity through forward-looking strategies, such as FY 2016 budget development. For example, the Department proposed investing in equity measures in its FY 2016 budget, with $2.7 billion or almost 12&amp;nbsp;percent increase for ESEA programs and substantial increases across many programs.

P–12 Education 

The Office of Early Learning in the Department’s OESE and the Administration for Children and Families at HHS awarded grants to launch high-quality preschool for 33,000 children from low- to moderate-income families in over 200 communities in the 18 Preschool Development Grants states. The 20 Race to the Top-ELC states have finalized their Annual Performance Reports showing their states’ progress in developing or enhancing their early learning systems. OCR also worked with HHS to develop a policy statement on discipline in early learning environments.

The Department continued to support the SIG program, ESEA Flexibility renewal, and the Excellent Educators for All initiative. On February 9, 2015, the Department published a notice of final regulations (NFRs) for SIG, incorporating changes from the FY 2014 appropriations act and lessons learned from implementation, so that SIG can better support turnaround efforts in the lowest-performing schools. The SIG NFR made slight adjustments to the four historical SIG models and includes three new SIG models: an early learning model, an evidence-based, whole school reform model, and a state-determined whole school reform model.

The Department released guidance for the Excellent Educators for All initiative during FY 2015. The initiative is directly tied to the goal of closing achievement gaps and ensuring equal educational opportunities; it is a three-pronged attempt to support states and districts as they work to ensure that low income students and students of color have equal access to effective and qualified educators. First, the Department required states to submit new Plans to Ensure Equitable Access to Excellent Educators (State Plans) in June 2015 and has reviewed and approved the plans of all 50 states, DC, and Puerto Rico. Second, the Department is currently implementing a $4.2 million effort to support an Equitable Access Support Network (EASN) that provides meaningful technical assistance to states in developing and then implementing high quality plans. The Department also created and released state-specific Educator Equity Profiles. The Department sent each state a copy of its CRDC file to facilitate additional state-level data analysis. The Department held a number of webinars with states to ensure they understood how the data could help in developing equity plans.

Also, several offices across the Department continue to be involved in the White House My Brother’s Keeper initiative, which aims to improve educational and other outcomes and reduce involvement with the juvenile and criminal justice systems for boys and young men of color. OSERS worked with OESE to identify districts with the highest numbers of males of color dropping out of school with the goal of providing these districts with technical assistance to support high needs students. OSERS also led a multistate convening to address disproportionate discipline rates for students of color. “Rethink Discipline,” a day-long conference at the White House, was convened by the Department and DOJ in July 2015, bringing together education professionals from across the country to work on strategies for creating positive school climates and implementing effective discipline practices to reduce the overuse of unnecessary out of school suspensions and expulsions and replace these practices with positive alternatives that keep students in school and engaged in learning, but also ensure accountability.

OESE helped launch a new White House Administration initiative, Every Student, Every Day: A National Initiative to Address and Eliminate Chronic Absenteeism. Led by the White House, the Department, HHS, HUD, and DOJ, the administration announced new steps to combat chronic absenteeism and called on states and local communities across the country to join in taking immediate action to address and eliminate chronic absenteeism by at least 10 percent each year, beginning in the current school year (2015–16).

OELA has been working with the White House Task Force on New Americans, particularly on highlighting promising practices for serving ELs, immigrants and refugees. In April, the Task Force released a new report that outlines the federal government’s goals to strengthen its integration efforts nationwide and build welcoming communities. Additionally, the Task Force has launched an “Educational and Linguistic Integration Webinar Series,” which has highlighted the work of researchers and practitioners who are working to support these populations. OELA has also partnered with the White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for African Americans to launch a set of fact sheets on Black ELs to develop awareness for targeted actions to ensure that group of student receive appropriate attention and support.

The Office of the Secretary supported the White House Initiative on American Indian and Alaska Native Education in its efforts to coordinate across federal agencies to execute Generation Indigenous, or Gen I, an interagency initiative to support Native youth.

OCTAE continued to coordinate the implementation of the P3 initiative, a unique cross-agency initiative that gives state, local, and tribal governments greater flexibility in using their discretionary funds to test innovative strategies for improving results for disconnected youth. The first nine pilots were announced in October 2015. For the next round of P3, OCTAE has published a Notice of Proposed Priorities (NPP). The NPP includes proposed priorities for disconnected youth who are unemployed and not enrolled in education; ELs; individuals with disabilities; homeless; in foster care; involved with the justice system; or immigrants or refugees.

While ESSA will certainly impact much of the Department’s work to promote equity in educational opportunity, the ultimate impacts of the new law are still being evaluated, and plans for implementation have yet to be fully developed. The FY 2016 APR will provide additional detail on the impact of the ESSA.

Higher Education

In FY 2015, OPEPD worked with the Office of the Under Secretary and other offices to develop the America’s College Promise to make two years of community college free for eligible students. OCTAE worked on preparing two solicitations related to reentry education.

The Department published a notice announcing a First in the World grant competition on May&amp;nbsp;11, 2015. The program is designed to promote evidence-based strategies and practices for college access and completion, focusing on high-need students. The $60 million appropriated for this program was used to make 18 grants to IHEs, including 9 grants to minority-serving institutions totaling $30&amp;nbsp;million. Two of the awards were Validation grants designed to replicate strategies proven to be successful in earlier evaluations.

SIP supports eligible IHEs in becoming self-sufficient and expanding their capacity to serve low-income students by providing funds to improve and strengthen the institution’s academic quality, institutional management, and fiscal stability.

In an effort to scale up successful practices that lead to completion, especially in the area of remedial education, the Department developed communities of practice among minority-serving community colleges. Lead institutions have been identified, recruited, and trained. Two communities of practice have been launched as of October 2015. The Department convened these communities of practice and others in November 2015 for the Student Success at Minority Serving Institutions conference.

OCR and FSA continue to support the President’s Sexual Assault Task Force to improve coordination, transparency, and effectiveness in responding to sexual violence in colleges and universities. The Task Force released a Resource Guide in September 2015, and is developing plans for the coming months, including a focus on technical assistance/regional convenings, research initiatives, and training/prevention at the P–12 level.

OCTAE and OCR are developing joint guidance to assist high schools, community colleges, other CTE providers, and state agencies in meeting their obligations under federal law to administer and oversee CTE programs, without discriminating on the basis of gender. OCTAE is working as well with FSA to promote greater awareness of new ability to benefit provisions that enable adults who lack a high school diploma or its equivalent to access student financial aid if they are enrolled in qualifying career pathway program.
</Strategic_Objective_Progress_Update></Strategic_Objective><Strategic_Goals><Strategic_Goal><id>502</id><strategic_goal_header>Equity</strategic_goal_header><strategic_goal_statement>Increase educational opportunities for and reduce discrimination against underserved students so that all students are well-positioned to succeed.
</strategic_goal_statement><strategic_goal_overview>President Obama and Secretary Duncan have both recognized the critical importance of educational equity.[1] While equity-related objectives are infused throughout the Department’s comprehensive programs and reform initiatives, the purpose of this goal is to coordinate and promote the pursuit of educational equity across the Department, using all the levers within the Department’s power to close opportunity gaps; to get the right resources to the students who need them the most; to end discrimination, harassment, bullying, and other barriers to education; and to buttress these and other equity-related efforts through civil rights enforcement and public engagement.
 
The Department is committed to pursuing equity at all stages of education, from birth through adulthood, in institutions of early learning, K–12 schools, career and technical and postsecondary education, as well as in adult education, workforce development, and independent living programs.  The Department’s goal is to ensure that all—not just a subset—of the nation’s children, youths, and adults graduate high school and obtain the skills necessary to succeed in college, in the pursuit of a meaningful career, and in their lives.  This includes racial, ethnic, and religious minority students; low-income students; English learners; students with disabilities; girls and women; lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender students; and students who live in geographical locations with greater barriers to or fewer opportunities for an equitable education..
 
The Department also recognizes the need to systemically increase educational opportunities for underserved populations, including by exploring ways to increase equitable access to resources and effective teachers within states and districts.  While the federal government is not the primary supplier of school funding—contributing only roughly 10 percent of the total education cost at the school level—the Department is committed to exploring ways to encourage states and districts to act more vigorously to close funding and resource gaps.  Moreover, studies show that having a strong teacher is the single most important in-school contributor to a student’s success.[2]  Because of this, and regardless of how teacher effectiveness is defined, it is critical that the nation eliminate disparities between the effectiveness of teachers who serve high-need students—including low-income students, English learners, and students with disabilities—and those who do not. By fostering improved teacher evaluation systems and talent pipelines from recruitment to retention, the Department aims to elevate the teaching profession as a whole while also working to ensure that all students – no matter their zip codes – have equitable access to effective teachers.
 
Finally, civil rights enforcement is pivotal to ensuring that recipients of federal financial funding at the pre-K, K–12, and postsecondary levels eliminate acts of discrimination that, left unchecked, would otherwise negatively impact students’ achievement and access to educational opportunities.  The Department’s Office for Civil Rights (OCR) uses a variety of tools to ensure compliance with federal civil rights laws, including issuing detailed policy guidance; conducting vigorous complaint investigations; procuring strong systemic remedies; pursuing aggressive monitoring of resolution agreements; launching targeted and proactive compliance reviews and technical assistance activities; collecting and publicizing school-level data on important civil rights compliance indicators; and participating in intra- and inter-agency work groups to share expertise and best practices.  OCR also engages students, parents, recipients of federal funding, and other stakeholders to inform them about applicable federal civil rights laws and policies so that they are equipped to identify and address civil rights issues at the earliest stages.
How will we measure success?  
 
The Department will use the following indicators to measure its success in increasing educational opportunities for and reducing discrimination against underserved students. The Department’s work related to equity is pervasive, and, as a result, measures related to equity are in both this section and in every other section.
 
Equity Indicators of Success
Increase the national high school graduation rate, including for poor and minority students, English learners, and students with disabilities
Increase the number of states that use effectiveness data from educator evaluation systems to ensure that poor and minority students, as well as students with disabilities and English learners, are not taught by ineffective educators at higher rates than other students
Increase the percentage of proactive civil rights investigations launched annually that address areas of concentration in civil rights enforcement
Increase the percentage of proactive investigations resolved annually that address areas of concentration in civil rights enforcement
What could hold us back?  What’s beyond our control?  (External Risk Factors)
Equity-focused efforts could be held back because of differences in availability of funding and resources at the state and local levels, some preexisting contractual obligations, the fact that state and local resources are often not targeted at the highest-need students, and the lack of necessary capacity among schools and districts to close achievement or opportunity gaps and provide needed supports for all students.  The ability to foster more equitable distribution of resources may be more difficult because of the decentralized and multi-tiered school finance system in the United States.    Further, delays in the development and implementation of high-quality educator evaluation systems could hinder the Department’s efforts in ensuring the equitable distribution of effective educators within and across schools and districts.  In addition, advancing education reform depends, in part, on the strong reauthorizations of the ESEA and other important equity-focused statutes—e.g., Perkins CTE, IDEA, and HEA.
Continuing budget cuts and reduction in staffing levels, coupled with an increase in the volume of civil rights complaints received, could compromise OCR’s ability to perform labor‑intensive proactive activities—i.e., preparing compliance reviews, providing technical assistance and outreach, and issuing important policy guidance, which help produce the greatest systemic change for students.
 
[1] Helene Cooper, “Obama Takes Aim at Inequality in Education, “ The New York Times, April 6, 2011; Abby Phillip, “Education reforms spark 'quiet revolution,'” Politico, July 27, 2010.
[2] Linda Darling-Hammond (2010). The Flat World and Education: How America’s Commitment to Equity Will Determine Our Nation’s Future Steven G. Rivkin, Eric A. Hanushek, and John F. Kain, “Teachers, Schools and Academic Achievement,” Econometrica 73, no. 2 (March 2005).
</strategic_goal_overview><themes></themes></Strategic_Goal></Strategic_Goals><Agency_Priority_Goals></Agency_Priority_Goals></data>