<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?><data><Strategic_Objective><Agency_Code>18</Agency_Code><Agency_Acronym>ED</Agency_Acronym><Strategic_Objective_ID>636</Strategic_Objective_ID><Strategic_Objective_Header>Technology and Innovation</Strategic_Objective_Header><Themes></Themes><Strategic_Objective_Statement>Accelerate the development and broad adoption of new, effective programs, processes, and strategies, including education technology.
</Strategic_Objective_Statement><Strategic_Objective_Overview>To achieve the president’s 2020 college attainment goal, the nation’s education system will need to graduate many more college-ready students from high school, ensure they have access to postsecondary education, and support them as they complete their degrees—all while facing resource constraints. When other sectors of the economy need to become better, faster, or more productive, they innovate, often relying on technology for help. The education sector is no different, and the need for innovation—and its benefits—spans grade levels, curricular areas, and student needs.

&amp;nbsp;

A 21st-century infrastructure that harnesses modern technological advances and provides easy access to high-speed Internet can serve as a platform for greater innovation in education.&amp;nbsp; Accordingly, the Department will continue to focus on ways to improve schools’ technology infrastructure and effective use of technology. It will also continue to work with Congress to establish a new advanced research projects agency for education that will use directed research and development activities to pursue breakthrough technological innovations in teaching and learning.

&amp;nbsp;

Technology holds the potential to expand all students’ opportunities to learn, including by supporting personalized learning experiences, providing dynamic digital content, and delivering more meaningful assessments. Technology can also help districts and schools support teachers in becoming more effective and better connected to the tools, resources, and expertise students need and help them meet more rigorous college- and career-ready standards.&amp;nbsp; Technology can also help schools by providing students and school library media specialists with increased access to academic tools and other resource-sharing networks.&amp;nbsp; Technology can also help schools by providing students and school library media specialists with increased access to academic tools and other resource-sharing networks. Technology-enabled instructional and assessment systems will be pivotal to improving student learning and generating data that can be used to continuously improve the education system at all levels. Innovative technology must be matched by innovative educational practices to maximize its potential to improve learning and instruction for all students, and it must be accessible to all students, including students with disabilities. Leadership is essential to ensure that innovative applications are disseminated and brought to scale.
</Strategic_Objective_Overview><Strategic_Objective_Lead_Office>Office of Educational Technology</Strategic_Objective_Lead_Office><Strategic_Objective_Progress_Update>The Department, in consultation with OMB, has determined that performance toward this objective is making noteworthy progress. The Department made many successes during FY&amp;nbsp;2015, including a call to the country’s 16,000&amp;nbsp;superintendents who lead district, charter, and private schools to join the Department in taking the Future Ready District Pledge. By taking this pledge, superintendents commit to develop, implement, and share technology plans with other districts so they can learn from successes and challenges along the way. The Future Ready District Pledge offers a roadmap to achieve successful personalized digital learning for every student and affirms a commitment by districts to move as quickly as possible toward the shared vision of preparing students for success in college, careers, and citizenship.

To support the work of the superintendents, the Department collected a series of best practices for connecting schools, providing devices, and preparing teachers to use technology effectively. These practices were published in guides released at the “ConnectED to the Future” superintendent summit: Future Ready Schools: Empowering Educators through Professional Learning and Future Ready Schools: Building Technology Infrastructure for Learning. The Department also issued a Dear Colleague letter to state and local superintendents to clarify that technology and digital learning can be an allowable use of more than $27&amp;nbsp;billion in federal funds under the ESEA and IDEA. Moreover, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) modernized School and Libraries (E-rate) program, raising the E-rate cap an additional $1.5 billion per year and reprioritizing internal connectivity. With that added funding, E-rate will now provide up to $3.9 billion per year to schools and libraries for both connectivity to and bandwidth within these institutions.

In April 2015, former Secretary Duncan announced the release of the Ed Tech Developer’s Guide: A Primer for Developers, Startups and Entrepreneurs—the first guidance from the Department specifically for developers of educational software. This guide addresses key questions about the education ecosystem and highlights critical needs and opportunities to develop digital tools and apps for learning that will help close equity gaps in our schools. Written with input from knowledgeable educators, developers, and researchers who were willing to share what they have learned, the guide is designed to help entrepreneurs apply technology in smart ways to solve persistent problems in education. The release was followed by a national Ed Tech Developers Tour, spawning more than twenty events around the country to promote the guide and highlight administration priorities regarding the creation and use of educational technology in schools. This guide is now the most downloaded publication from the Department’s Office of Educational Technology.

In September 2015, the Department announced the hiring of the first ever open education adviser to lead a national effort to expand schools’ access to high-quality, openly licensed learning resources. In support of the President’s ConnectED goal for high-quality, low-cost digital learning resources, the open education advisor will focus on helping both P–12 and higher education connect with teaching, learning and research resources in the public domain that are freely available to anyone over the web. With this position filled, the Department is able to work with tool providers and developers, district and state leaders, and educators to expand the use of openly licensed educational resources at scale in districts and states. Open educational resources are an important element of an infrastructure for learning and ranges from podcasts to digital libraries to textbooks and games.

Also in September, the Department awarded a contract to develop approaches for evaluating educational apps to help schools and parents make evidence-based decisions when choosing which apps to use with their students. This project will establish a standard for low-cost, quick turnaround evaluations of apps, and field test rapid-cycle evaluations to understand how to improve outcomes of ESEA and now ESSA programs. In addition to generating evidence on specific apps, the project will help develop protocol tools for conducting rapid cycle evaluations of apps that practitioners, developers, and researchers can use beyond the scope of this evaluation.
</Strategic_Objective_Progress_Update></Strategic_Objective><Strategic_Goals><Strategic_Goal><id>503</id><strategic_goal_header>Continuous Improvement of the U.S. Education System</strategic_goal_header><strategic_goal_statement>Enhance the education system’s ability to continuously improve through better and more widespread use of data, research and evaluation, evidence, transparency, innovation, and technology.
</strategic_goal_statement><strategic_goal_overview>Achieving the president’s 2020 college attainment goal will require better and stronger systems, powered by reliable and usable information that informs decision making, as well as by innovation.  Through this strategic plan, the Department aims to foster a culture of continuous systems improvement at the national, state, and local levels.  To achieve this goal, the Department will support robust and comprehensive data systems that produce timely, relevant, and understandable information while properly protecting student privacy; strategic use of research, evaluation, and  evidence in decision making at all levels; increased innovation; and effective and systemic use of technology.
 
The foundation for improving systemic capacity is an infrastructure that supports data-driven decision making.  Stakeholders must have access to relevant, useful data in a timely fashion, and the skills to better understand and make use of the data.  With relevant and actionable data and the ability to use it, policymakers and educators will be able to appraise how states, districts, schools, and students are currently performing; measure progress; pinpoint gaps; improve practice; better address student needs; and make sound decisions.  States are developing systems that will yield the valid, reliable data that are essential to achieving these purposes, but there is much more work to do.  The Department will continue helping states develop effective statewide longitudinal data systems, design voluntary common data standards to increase interoperability, and develop the capacity of institutions and staff to utilize data to improve teaching and learning.  These activities will help to generate an accurate picture of student performance and other critical elements, from early learning programs through postsecondary institutions and the workforce. At the same time, the Department will work through the government-wide Open Data Initiative to ensure that its own information and data are accessible to and useable by researchers, analysts, and developers in the general public.
 
Of course, the collection and use of data must be responsible and must appropriately protect student privacy.  Stewards and users of data must remember that data describe real people and ensure that systems protect the rights of those people. But there is no need to sacrifice data-driven decision making to protect student privacy, and the Department will help practitioners in the field ensure they are properly protecting privacy, and communicating with parents and students about the proper use and management of student data.
Systemic improvement also requires research and evaluation so that decision makers at the national, state, and local levels have reliable evidence to inform their actions. The Department aims to support research that will make a difference by giving states, districts, and schools the information and evidence they need to identify the effective practices they need to adopt. This research will also help them focus scarce resources on investments most likely to have the greatest impact and become more dynamic learning organizations.  In service of this, the Department will use its programmatic and research activities to incentivize the creation and use of evidence by stakeholders in the field. In addition, the Department will use evidence to inform its own policymaking and program development, and will work to communicate the findings of its research and evaluation activities to the field in an engaging and relevant way, further increasing their impact.
The goals and actions in this strategic plan sharpen the focus on the need to generate bold and creative solutions, and aim to support innovation in partnership with other federal partners and private organizations with related missions.  The Department will continue to stimulate innovations in education and provide funds needed to accelerate their design and adoption.  It also will work with Congress to fill a gap in the research and development landscape by establishing an advanced research projects agency for education to pursue breakthrough developments in ways not possible using existing Department mechanisms.
 
The Department’s vision for 21st-century learning also requires that schools have a 21st -century technology infrastructure, anchored around high-speed Internet. States, districts, and schools must have such infrastructure to incorporate cutting-edge methods for strengthening curriculum quality and delivery to meet more rigorous college- and career-ready standards; improving student access and engagement; developing comprehensive, formative, and summative assessment systems; and enhancing data management systems.
How will we measure success?  
 
The Department will use the following indicators to measure its success in enhancing the U.S. education system’s ability to continuously improve through better and more widespread use of data, research and evaluation, evidence, transparency, innovation, and technology.
 
 
Continuous Improvement of the U.S. Education System’s Indicators of Success
Increase number of states linking K–12 data with early childhood data
Increase number of states linking K–12 and postsecondary data with workforce data
Increase number of high-value data sets published through Data.gov or ED.gov websites
Decrease average time to close matters for the Privacy Technical Assistance Center (PTAC) and Family Policy Compliance Office (FPCO)
Increase number of new peer-reviewed, full-text resources added to the Education Resources Information Center
Increase number of reviewed studies added to the What Works Clearinghouse  database
Increase the percentage of select new[1] (non-continuation) competitive grant dollars that reward evidence
 dollars that reward evidence
Increase percentage of schools in the country that have Internet bandwidth speeds of at least 100 Mbps
What could hold us back?  What’s beyond our control?  (External Risk Factors)
 
Efforts to ensure that robust, integrated data systems are linked with early childhood, postsecondary, and workforce-level data will be constrained by the amount of time, financial resources, and support available to states to carry out this work.  State and local funding for data systems may be reduced due to continued budgetary pressures at all levels.  Moreover, wide variations in the various data systems present unique challenges for each state.  Some district data systems, for example, far surpass their own state’s data system.  Efforts to ensure that data systems lead to data-driven decision making may also encounter obstacles around privacy concerns that will need to be addressed.
 
The implementation of these strategies depends on the availability of resources for evaluation and research, which are typically more difficult to obtain than resources for services and program implementation.  In addition, many of the activities supporting this goal will be carried out by contractors and grantees, and thus are, in part, dependent on the capacity and quality of research expertise that exists outside the Department.  This variance in capacity may be more pronounced when it comes to interpreting and using evidence to drive decision making. Similarly, the evidence base regarding interventions in some areas is more robust than in others. And some grant programs focus on areas with less-developed evidence bases. At least in the short term, this could affect the amount of Department funding tied to the existence of certain levels of evidence for projects. Additionally, there are the perceived and real challenges states and districts face in implementing programs in ways that can support the strongest possible studies and evaluations of those programs. Some of these challenges can be addressed through Departmental technical assistance, but others may arise.
 
As reflected by Strategic Objective 5.2, one ongoing challenge is to protect privacy while increasing accessibility to relevant information. For its part, the Department will continue to vigilantly safeguard all personally identifiable information while also helping education agencies make useful information available. The Department also will help stakeholders develop best practices in protecting privacy while still driving data-driven decision making. But no system is perfect, and concerns about privacy may deter stakeholders from embracing the use of data, regardless of the actual level of risk presented.  Another risk lies in finding the right balance of information as too much information could make it nearly impossible to find meaning within data. To avoid this problem, the Department must work with stakeholders to prioritize information and to determine what is most likely to help families make choices for their children, help teachers improve student learning, and enable decision makers to improve education institutions.
 
Education funding faces tremendous budgetary pressure across the country, putting investment in new programs, strategies, or processes at risk.  In this time of decreasing budgets, technology infrastructure and other innovations might be seen as luxuries rather than as mission critical.  Because the private sector currently does not find investment in education innovation as attractive as investment in innovation in other sectors, there is limited private funding to help bridge the gaps.  And the promise of technology might be affected by variance in the capacity of states, districts, and schools to plan, implement, and support modern technology networks.
 
[1] “New competitive grant dollars that reward evidence” includes all dollars awarded based on the existence of at least “evidence of promise” in support of a project, per the framework in the Education Department General Administrative Regulations (34 CFR Part 75). Consideration of such evidence appears through: eligibility threshold (e.g., in the Investing in Innovation program); absolute priority; competitive priority (earning at least one point for it); or selection criteria (earning at least one point for it). The percentage is calculated compared to the total new grant dollars awarded, excluding awards made by the Institute of Education Sciences, the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research, and technical assistance centers, with some exceptions.
</strategic_goal_overview><themes></themes></Strategic_Goal></Strategic_Goals><Agency_Priority_Goals></Agency_Priority_Goals></data>