"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"General Services Administration",23,GSA,Service,542,1006,"Support small and disadvantaged business","GSA will support small and disadvantaged business.","GSA will collaborate with industry on federal acquisition requirements and best practices to promote opportunities for small, disadvantaged, women-owned, historically underutilized business zones, and service-disabled veteran–owned small businesses. GSA will continue to educate the acquisition workforce on the importance of meeting socio-economic goals and assure small business considerations are made throughout the acquisition life-cycle in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation in order to maximize small business opportunity in procurements.  Strategies:   	Increase participation in acquisition planning, internal procurement compliance reviews, and prime contractor subcontractor compliance reviews. 	Advise on revision of small business policies. 	Enhance analytic, performance monitoring and reporting capabilities. 	Streamline outreach program efficiency and effectiveness.   Key Performance Goals:   	Meet small business prime contracting goals 	Meet small business subcontracting goals 	Meet small business targets on Multiple Award Schedule   Contributing Programs:     	Acquisition Workforce Training 	Assisted Acquisition 	Building Operations 	Citizen Services and Innovative Technologies 	Construction and Acquisition of Facilities 	Electronic Government 	Federal Acquisition Service – Integrators 	General Management and Support Services 	General Supplies and Services 	Government-wide Policy 	Integrated Acquisition Environment 	Integrated Technology Services 	Operating Expense 	Rental of Space 	Transportation Audits 	Travel, Motor Vehicle and Card Services        ","Office of Small Business Utilization (OSBU)","Delivering the best value for government and the American people requires taking advantage of all resources. Central to that approach is expanding opportunities for small businesses throughout the country. In FY 2014, GSA received its third consecutive A rating from the Small Business Administration (SBA).   In FY 2015, GSA’s small business goals include: Small business - 32%; SDBs - 5%; WOSBs – 5%; HUBZones – 3. %; SDVOSBs – 3;00%. GSA anticipates meeting all of its small business goals. However, final results for FY 2015 will be realeased by the Small Business Administration in May of 2016.  In FY 2015, GSA continues to focus on the HUBZone goal. GSA participates in HUBZone outreach events at the regional and national levels; identifies HUBZone concerns in each buying activity and gives HUBZone businesses direct access to buyers and contracting officers. GSA’s Office of Small Business Utilization (OSBU) conducts internal training sessions with buyers and project managers to educate them about market research resources and to clarify the use of HUBZone set-asides under the new parity guidelines.  GSA collaborates with the SBA to host HUBZone and other small business contracting webinars to provide facts and resources to the acquisition workforce. These webinars provide education on contracting with HUBZones in an effort to assist with meeting the 3% HubZone small business goal.  GSA cascaded its national small business contracting priorities into actionable plans at the buying activity level, and worked closely with SBA Procurement Center Representatives. Each regional GSA small business utilization center developed an engagement plan focused on goal achievement for the regional buying activity for which they are responsible.  In FY 2014, over 37% conducted through the Multiple Award Schedules were awarded to small and disadvantaged businesses compared to an annual target of 33%. GSA exceeded all small business prime contracting goals with the exception of Small Business, where 38.97% was attained vs. performance target of 39%. Final numbers for small business performance for FY 2014 were reported by the SBA in August 2015.  Strategic Objective Next Steps. GSA plans to take the following actions in support of this strategic objective:  1.   Monitoring, oversight, and accountability   	Enhance level of detail in reports GSA uses to track and monitor progress against subcontracting goals to show greater visibility into specific buying activities 	Develop reporting dashboards for PBS and the Office of Administrative Services (OAS) to assist with tracking subcontracting goals and reporting progress as well as aid in monitoring of prime contractor compliance with reporting requirements. 	Continue to include weekly updates on subcontracting progress to agency leadership through the Agency Weekly Report and team briefings for senior management. 	Issue guidance from the Administrator regarding the importance of meeting small business goals, including all subcontracting goals 	Conduct targeted conversations with regional and business line leadership where subcontracting goals are not being met 	Perform targeted monitoring and spot checks with the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (SRS), and follow-up with prime contractors that are not meeting their subcontracting goals 	Partner with SBA to conduct Subcontracting Compliance Review site visits for major, high-dollar contracts, with a focus on FSSI, and National Broker Contracts. Conduct select reviews by desk audit. 	Include in annual Procurement Management Reviews (PMRs), or conduct individual Small Business Compliance Reviews (SBCRs), an evaluation of contracting officer monitoring of subcontracting plans, and the reporting of contractor performance against, and efforts to achieve, small business goals in the Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS); six PMRs and/or SBCRs were conducted in FY 2015, four more are planned for FY 2016 	Continue to publish subcontracting goals and progress to the internal OSBU subcontracting website on a weekly basis 	Continue to encourage teams to promote and negotiate aggressive subcontracting plan goals as appropriate for individual projects 	Collaborate with program offices and provide guidance and oversight when new requirements are developed to determine if small business can be utilized either in partial or a total capacity (i.e., Business Cases, Bundling Analysis, Consolidation Analysis and the Small Business Analysis Record) 	Utilize GSA’s social media platforms to communicate current small business goal status and offer encouragement to continue working towards reaching those goals","General Government||Management",,,
