"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Veterans Affairs",29,VA,"Enhance and Develop Trusted Partnerships",1014,1015,"Enhance VA’s Partnership with DoD","Enhance VA’s Partnership with DoD","Summary:  VA’s life-long engagement with its clients begins when Servicemembers first enter service and continues through the remainder of their lives. In support of this engagement, VA and DoD are working together to improve the access, quality, effectiveness, and efficiency of health care, benefits, and services provided to Servicemembers, Veterans, and other beneficiaries. VA will work closely with DoD to ensure that these benefits and services are delivered through an integrated client-centric approach that anticipates and addresses client needs; that the delivery of health care is provided through a patient-driven health care system that delivers quality, access, satisfaction and value consistently across the Departments; and through the efficiency of operations that are delivered through joint planning, training, and execution. The Departments must ensure that authorized beneficiary and health information is accessible, usable, shared, and secure in order to meet the needs of clients, customers, and stakeholders.  Strategies:  VA and DoD will continue to work towards achieving these goals with its many DoD partners through the VA-DoD Joint Executive Committee (JEC) in order to improve business practices, ensure high-quality, cost effective services for both VA and DoD beneficiaries, facilitate opportunities to improve resource utilization and sharing, and to remove barriers that might impede collaborative efforts.  VA and DoD will create an authoritative source of health information for DoD and VA beneficiaries, which will include the delivery of a highly flexible, reliable, secure, maintainable, and sustainable systems. VA and DoD will jointly implement the separation health assessment based upon the joint common criteria established by the Departments. VA will continue to partner with DoD and increase the information and self-service capabilities available through the eBenefits portal for active duty Servicemembers and Veterans and eligible beneficiaries.",,"Final Assessment:  VA, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, highlighted this objective as a focus area for improvement.  Achievements:  The Veterans health and benefits portal, eBenefits, added 1,021,538 million individual accounts in FY 2015 and now has a total of 5,160,568 million enrolled, reaching the established FY 2015 target nearly 2 months ahead of schedule.  Also, VA provides support to the DoD for IDES with responsibility for completing 4 Core Process Steps within a goal of 100 days.  As of September 30, 2015, VA was at 91 days and meeting the 100 day goal.      In FY 2015, VA completed 77,862 Separation Health Assessment (SHA) exams, which included exams in support of IDES and those within one year of military separation.  Additionally, VA has worked with DoD to create 2 research consortia for traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder, at a combined investment of $107 million over 5 years.[1]     Furthermore, VA started collaborating with DoD Health Affairs to plan for the implementation of section 402 of VACAA.  Section 402[2] authorized VA to provide Military Sexual  Trauma-related health care services to active duty Servicemembers without a referral from TRICARE or a military treatment facility.     Also, DoD announced their electronic health record selection to replace the Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application system.     Challenges:  Continued process improvements are needed in order to meet and sustain the joint VA/DoD IDES performance goal for processing 80 percent of all claims within 295 days.  Also, it is a challenge to develop joint metrics for how the Departments will achieve the legal requirement for DoD and VA to deploy modernized electronic health record software supporting clinicians of the Departments by no later than December 31, 2016, while ensuring continued support and compatibility with the interoperability platform and full standards-based interoperability.     Another challenge is developing a tracking tool by DoD to verify that all Servicemembers who are not filing a VA disability claim prior to separation receive a SHA.      [1] http://www.research.va.gov/topics/tbi.cfm    [2] http://www.va.gov/opa/choiceact/documents/Choice-Act-Summary.pdf","Veterans Benefits and Services||National Defense",,,
