"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Veterans Affairs",29,VA,"Manage and Improve VA Operations to Deliver Seamless and Integrated Support",1018,1021,"Build a Flexible and Scalable Infrastructure through Improved Organizational Design and Enhanced Capital Planning","Build a Flexible and Scalable Infrastructure through Improved Organizational Design and Enhanced Capital Planning","Summary:  The size of the Veteran population may be decreasing, but the demographics and preferences are increasing in complexity. VA’s infrastructure – organizational structure, equipment, and facilities – must become more flexible and scalable in order to better serve Veterans of today and tomorrow.  Strategies:  VA will rethink how it operates as a Department, defining the fundamental cross-cutting capabilities and interdependencies required to achieve them. We will identify and address any internal organizational, policy, procedural, perceptual, and cultural boundaries that constrain our ability to coordinate, integrate, and deliver benefits and services. VA will evaluate alternate organizational designs that improve integration of benefits and services to provide the client a coordinated experience when utilizing multiple benefits and services.  VA will explore opportunities for sharing facilities and services across VA and with other federal agencies; state, tribal, and local governments; nonprofits; and private industry to support Veterans and Veterans’ families.  VA will continue capital planning efforts to provide safe, secure, modern, and sustainable infrastructure, and enhance capital planning efforts that increase the flexibility of VA’s capital infrastructure to accommodate integration of services and promote sharing of physical and virtual space within and between VA and its partners.  VA will expand “connected” health benefits and services which may reduce our dependency on physical infrastructure.",,"Final Assessment:  VA, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, determined that performance toward this objective is making noteworthy progress.  Achievements:  VA stood up the MyVA Regionalization priority that created an integrated plan for regionalization that will align VA’s disparate organizational boundaries into a single regional framework to enhance internal coordination.[1]  VA also established the My VA Support Services Excellence priority to optimize the organization, functions and activities of VA’s core support functions to best serve our internal customers to the ultimate benefit of Veterans.  From the perspective of the client (VA’s internal organizations), the priority is determining the “as-is,” and propose a future state for nine support services in three waves:  the Pilot (Security and Preparedness) and Group 1 (Human Resources, Information Management/Information & Technology, Finance, and Procurement) are in progress and Group 2 (Real Property, Public Affairs, Legislative Affairs, General Counsel) will be examined later this year. In addition, the MyVA Performance Improvement priority was established to partner across VA to identify and execute select process improvements, while establishing an enterprise-wide strategy and infrastructure that supports a culture of continuous performance and outcome improvement.[2]     In April 2015, the MyVA Performance Improvement priority developed VA101 Training to build employees’ knowledge and awareness of critical VA and Veteran-specific topics.  In FY 2015, the training was conducted at 85 sites to more than 6,000+ employees.  The priority is also working to expand Guest Wi-Fi in all VHA facilities and clinics so Veterans and their families have Internet access.  The priority is also looking to implement a direct scheduling process for ear and eye care so Veterans can bypass primary care and schedule appointments directly with Audiology and Optometry.  The team is also standardizing signage and way-finding materials such as maps so Veterans can more easily navigate our facilities and creating an integrated town hall guide book for VA facilities to use to strengthen outreach and to plan and execute integrated town halls with Veterans.     VA completed the FY 2016 Strategic Capital Investment Planning (SCIP) process and delivered budget on time containing both the current year funding request and Long-Range (10-year) capital requirements to address VA’s infrastructure deficiencies.  Also the Department realigned the SCIP business case application to the current FY 2014-2020 Strategic Plan.  In addition, VA is expected to meet or exceed its performance target to seek public private partnerships to repurpose underutilized assets and build new facilities to provide supportive housing to Veterans.  The target for FY 2015 is to close approximately 10 Enhanced Use Lease Projects and create 300 new units of housing online with 100 percent Veteran preference.  VA also expects to award a total of $24 million in energy performance-based contract value by end of FY 2015.     Challenges:  Accomplishment of Strategic Objective 3.3 is dependent on funding availability to implement capital plans developed through SCIP.  Funding for capital initiatives contained in SCIP remains subdued with FY 2016 funding significantly well below the rates required to address the Long-Range (10-year) plan requirements to achieve full gap closure.         [1] http://www.va.gov/opa/pressrel/pressrelease.cfm?id=2672    [2] http://www.va.gov/opa/myva/docs/myva_integrated_plan.pdf      ","General Government||Management",,,
