"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Social Security Administration",16,SSA,"Ensure Reliable, Secure, and Efficient IT Services",1036,1037,"Maintain System Performance and the Continuity of IT Services",,"Technology is essential to managing Social Security programs.  If our systems are not functioning optimally, the productivity of our workforce immediately declines, resulting in diminished service.  We must maintain strong IT performance despite rising IT demands, increasing cybersecurity risks, and constant changes in technology.  To meet our service delivery challenges, we rely upon a large and complex technology infrastructure that includes two data centers, extensive national databases, hundreds of software applications, large supporting computing platforms, and thousands of networked computers, printers, telephones, and other devices (e.g., smart phones).  Change to our IT infrastructure is constant.  We strive to ensure responsive, reliable performance to our customers and employees in the presence of this constant change.  Our two data centers, the National Computer Center (NCC) and the Second Support Center, maintain the demographic, wage, and benefit information that enables prompt and accurate benefit payments.  The NCC has been in continuous operation as a data center since it opened in 1980.  Congress approved our requested funding to build a new data center, the National Support Center (NSC), and extensive planning is underway for the move to this new facility.  We will transition all operations from the existing NCC to the new NSC in FY 2015 and FY 2016.  The NSC will provide increased capacity and improved operational reliability and efficiency.  Strategies:   	Successfully transition to the NSC; and 	Maintain responsive, reliable system performance.","Office of Systems","Progress Update  The Social Security Administration, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, has determined the progress toward this objective is making noteworthy progress. We took the following steps in FY 2015 to maintain system performance and the continuity of information technology services (see Key Initiatives and Performance Measures for more details):  • Set up new IT infrastructure at the National Support Center, as scheduled; and  • Maintained system continuity, as planned.  Next Steps  • Continue transition plan to the National Support Center; and  • Maintain current systems reliability metrics throughout the transition to the National Support Center.",Management,,,
