"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Social Security Administration",16,SSA,"Ensure Reliable, Secure, and Efficient IT Services",1036,1038,"Enhance and Execute Plans to Modernize Our System",,"Our IT is evolving to incorporate stable, modern technologies that align with our business needs.  We support and employ technologies championed by the Federal Chief Information Officer (CIO) Council and other Federal directives.  Examples of these technologies include the Administration’s Digital Government Strategy, shared services, modular development, and cloud computing architecture.  As we carry out our investment management processes to determine how to use our limited IT resources, we strive for a balanced strategy of investing in new and improving existing business applications and infrastructure as funding permits.  We incrementally modernize our applications based on business needs, technical advancement, and risk management.  We will pursue the use of newer, more adaptable technologies, while maintaining the systems that support our mission.  We will improve and expand our telephone services by offering to transfer customers calling field offices to our National 800 Number Network.  This network’s sophisticated software allows us to optimize the routing of our National 800 Number Network calls to reduce our customer wait time.  We made this possible by the FY 2013 conversion of our National 800 Number Network to the Citizen Access Routing Enterprise through 2020 (CARE 2020) solution.  The Care 2020 software will provide us with information to better optimize service and identify our customers’ needs in order to provide a world-class customer experience.  Strategies:   	Refresh IT planning activities to effectively prioritize and manage IT investments; 	Employ technology to extend service, mitigate risk, and reduce cost; and 	Assess application portfolios, focusing on cost, business value, and technology sustainability.","Office of Systems","Progress Update:  We took the following steps in FY 2015 to enhance and execute plans to modernize our systems (see Key Initiatives and Performance Measures for more details):  • Enhanced our annual application portfolio management review by combining data collection and detail analysis; and  • Implemented additional fraud detection algorithms to detect potential fraud.  Next Steps  • Expand use of our application portfolio management process to applications developed outside the Office of Systems;  • Expand antifraud applications, identifying both internal and external threats; and • Convert selected databases to relational database technology.",Management,,,
