"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Commerce",6,DOC,"Ensure communities and businesses have the necessary information, products, and services to prepare for and prosper in a changing environment",564,1089,"Improve preparedness, response, and recovery from weather and water events by building a Weather-Ready Nation. (NOAA, Census)","Improve preparedness, response, and recovery from weather and water events by building a Weather-Ready Nation. (NOAA, Census)","Weather affects almost every endeavor in the Nation.  Major industries and small businesses alike depend on weather, water, and climate information to make informed decisions and plan for the future.  Extreme events are becoming the norm.  Winter storms, flooding, drought, hurricanes, wildfires, extreme temperatures, and tornados can cost lives and billions of dollars in damage.  The steep increases in damaging weather-related events and associated societal impacts highlight the growing importance of weather, water, and climate information.  Urbanization, migration to coastal communities, and a growing population also increasingly put people and businesses at greater risk.     A Weather-Ready Nation is about building community preparedness in the face of increasing vulnerability to extreme weather and water events.  The Department will continue its critical role in protecting the lives, property, and the economy by providing valuable weather, water, and climate products and services.  This role will be expanded to embrace collaboration and seek new ways to create value beyond traditional forecasting activities.  Delivering enhanced weather, water, and climate information will help communities and businesses to be ready, responsive, and resilient.  Refining how the information is shared and ultimately used will make the U.S. that much more weather ready.",,"During FY 2014, the Department of Commerce made progress toward building a Weather-Ready Nation by improving the accuracy and usefulness of weather predictions, evolving the National Weather Service (NWS) and broadly engaging U.S. society to contribute to the Weather-Ready Nation initiatives, and creating new tools to support emergency managers.     Accomplishments include:      	Completed National Water Center facility in Tuscaloosa, Alabama to facilitate close partnerships among federal water agencies. (Completed in 2/14, in advance of 9/30 target.) 	Weather-Ready Nation Ambassadors Initiative is now rolled out and has 857 recognized ambassadors as of 9/30/2014. 	NOAA achieved useful forecast of 8.1 days, exceeding 8 day target (annual measure). 	NOAA’s hurricane model, Hurricane Weather Research and Forecast System (HWRF), has been recognized as having the best hurricane scores for Atlantic hurricanes in track and intensity for up to 3 days in advance. 	HWRF is also recognized as the best in intensity and track forecasts for super typhoons in the Western Pacific. 	Recognized 22 new TsunamiReady Communities for FY 2014 (12 more than target of 10). 	Recognized 150 new StormReady Communities for FY 2014 (50 more than target of 100). 	Significantly enhanced Census Bureau’s OnTheMap for Emergency Management Tool. 	In FY 2014, NOAA’s Winter Storm Warnings Lead Time (average – in hours) was 22, vs. 22 in FY 2013 and 18 in FY 2012.      Next Steps in FY 2015:                                                                                                     	FY2015 Q1 – Upgrade Global Data Assimilation System and Global Forecast System (GFS) to improve the quality of products and services. 	FY2015 Q2 – Complete Weather-Ready Nation Ambassador outreach to every Cabinet-level Department. 	FY2015 Q2 – Upgrade Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in order to ensure collaborative connections with FEMA and other emergency managers. 	FY2015 Q3 – Achieve Initial Operating Capability at National Water Center to enhance interagency collaboration/partnerships among federal water agencies. 	FY2015 Q4 – Recognize 10 new TsunamiReady Communities and 100 new StormReady Communities to improve preparedness.","Natural Resources and Environment",1066,"FY14-15 : Improve Forecasting Accuracy and Lead Times for Severe Weather","Major weather events demonstrate the importance of hazard preparedness and response in the United States.  Improved weather forecast accuracy, combined with enhanced decision support services, allow emergency management and the American public more time to prepare for high-impact weather events.  This enables protection of life and property and enhancement of the U.S. economy.   A key way to measure improvements in model performance is to examine how far into the future Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) guidance demonstrates skill.  Model output ceases to have useful skill at predicting the weather at longer forecast lengths.  Large scale weather patterns that affect the local weather that each of us experience on a daily basis, are driven by features in the mid-levels of the atmosphere.  During the past 20 years, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA’s) National Weather Service (NWS) has seen its ability to provide useful predictions of future high-impact weather events extend from 6 days to 8 days. This goal focuses on improving the Global Forecast System model 2013 that currently has useful skill at forecasting the mid-levels of the atmosphere across the globe out to 8.0 days. Upon completion of forecasting upgrades over the next two years, the NWS expects to extend this out to 9 days. Improving global weather prediction facilitates improvements to regional, local scale models that provide accurate information about the formation and movement of high impact storms in the right place at the right time.  Knowing with a good level of confidence that the storm is coming 5 days in advance enables for significantly improved response.  Evacuations from hurricanes require 3 full days, and thus accurate, consistent forecasts 4-7 days in advance are invaluable to people who have to make these critical decisions.  Increased lead time means lives saved and property protected.  NWS will also continue efforts to support the use of improved weather forecast data by emergency managers through better impact-based decision support services.  Achieving this priority goal will allow NWS to predict farther into the future and enable the American public to make the right choices when extreme weather threatens."
