"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Commerce",6,DOC,"Ensure communities and businesses have the necessary information, products, and services to prepare for and prosper in a changing environment",564,1090,"Enable U.S. businesses to adapt and prosper by developing environmental and climate informed solutions.  (ITA, ESA, NIST, NOAA)","Enable U.S. businesses to adapt and prosper by developing environmental and climate informed solutions.  (ITA, ESA, NIST, NOAA)","To survive and flourish, businesses must be able to adapt to the changing environment by balancing environmental, social, and economic concerns.   When businesses adopt processes and solutions that recognize the importance of the environment and climate, the results can include cost savings and new commercial products and services that improve profitability and competitiveness.  At the same time, the positive power and reach of business and markets will further our shared environmental, social, and economic goals for the health of the Nation.  The Department is uniquely equipped to develop and provide new environmental and climate informed services that help businesses enhance their value.  The Department’s capabilities in this area span a range of activities that help create new businesses, improve competitiveness, promote environmental goals, and provide important environmental information for decision making. Ultimately, the Department’s programs in this area can be leveraged to empower US companies and foster environmental and climate business solutions that benefit the Nation.",,"During FY 2014, the Department of Commerce (DOC) made good progress in helping U.S. businesses to adapt and prosper by developing environmental and climate informed solutions.  The lack of a strong, predictable domestic market continues to hinder the global competitiveness of U.S. clean energy companies; in addition, like U.S. environmental technologies firms, their global market share has been eroded by lower cost suppliers abroad.  Trade missions and information portals (e.g. www.export.gov/reee and www.export.gov/envirotech) helped support businesses.   New software was made publicly available for architects and businesses to use in assessing sustainable building designs (birdscom.nist.gov), and a robust inter-bureau (ESA, ITA, NIST, NOAA) dialogue to frame future conversations with businesses around natural capital values was begun.  Accomplishments include:  Boost exports of environmental and clean energy technologies  (ITA)   	ITA and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) launched the Environmental Solutions Toolkit to allow U.S. companies to showcase their technologies to foreign buyers who can also access EPA’s work on any mobile platform. 	ITA completed two Top Export Market Studies (Renewable Energy and Environmental Technologies) to provide additional data on foreign markets to U.S. firms seeking to export.      Develop Standards and tools to assess green building technologies (NIST)   	NIST successfully completed the design and review phase of Building Industry Reporting and Design for Sustainability, otherwise known as BIRDS. This new science-based online software tool was created by NIST to enable building professionals and other users to assess three major determinants of building stability: energy, environmental, and cost performance. The tool was publicly deployed in early October 2014.      Engage targeted business sectors to integrate natural capital values into their business models (ESA, NOAA)   	ESA and NOAA developed a concept paper on how to implement a series of business roundtables focused on engaging industry in valuing natural capital. The bureaus identified a cluster mapping approach for identifying target industries to engage in the roundtables.                                            Next Steps in FY 2015:                                                                                                                             	FY2015 Q1-Q4 – ITA will work to leverage staff expertise to ensure that environmental and clean energy businesses are included as part of trade missions in related infrastructure areas. 	FY2015 Q1 – Launch cross-bureau steering committee and complete action plan for holding series of Natural Capital Business Roundtables in order to leverage expertise from across the Department (ESA, NOAA) 	FY2015 Q1 – Collect existing natural capital tools and other relevant info needed in order to develop an initial template for a web-based tool, ACE for the Environment (ACE-E) (ESA, NOAA) 	FY2015 Q2 – Hold first roundtable in the Gulf of Mexico to engage businesses in the value of natural capital; measure number of engaged businesses (ESA, NOAA) 	FY2015 Q2 – Develop first version of ACE-E, based on industry input following the first roundtable, in order to provide industry with a web-based economic tool (ESA, NOAA) 	FY2015 Q3 – Release the public versions of four individual Top Export Market Studies (i.e., Renewable Energy, Smart Grid, Civil Nuclear and Environmental Technologies) (ITA) 	FY2015 Q3 – Develop an online buyer’s guide for the renewable energy sector, similar to the Environmental Solutions Toolkit (ITA) 	FY2015 Q3 – Hold second roundtable on natural capital in the Great Lakes region in order to target regional industries; measure number of engaged businesses (ESA, NOAA) 	FY2015 Q4 – Hold third roundtable on natural capital in the Northeast U.S. in order to target regional industries; measure number of engaged businesses (ESA, NOAA) 	FY2015 Q4 – Develop revised version of ACE-E based on industry input following the Gulf of Mexico, Great Lakes, and Northeast roundtables in order to provide a comprehensive online economic tool for businesses across the U.S. (ESA, NOAA)","Natural Resources and Environment",,,
