"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Commerce",6,DOC,"Ensure communities and businesses have the necessary information, products, and services to prepare for and prosper in a changing environment",564,1092,"Advance the understanding and prediction of changes in the environment through world class science and observations. (NOAA, NIST)","Advance the understanding and prediction of changes in the environment through world class science and observations. (NOAA, NIST)","In order to meet the needs of communities and businesses in a changing environment, comprehensive and integrated observations and an improved understanding of the Earth system are needed.  To make this improved understanding useful to society, it must be employed in models and applications that are used in planning and decision making.     The Department has a tremendous diversity of world-leading capabilities supporting the research, development, and observations required for state-of-the-art models and applications critical to national well-being.  NOAA’s Five-year Research and Development Plan will advance innovative research that pushes the boundaries of scientific understanding, integrates information across scientific disciplines, and transitions new information and technology into improved products and services.  NOAA will strive to modernize observation systems of satellites and ships and maintain core observation system infrastructure. Also, NIST is working to develop reliable, internationally-accepted measurement standards and methodologies that are the basis for future-generation measurement and monitoring capabilities.  The Department will continue to work closely with its scientific partners to advance R&D to support the lives and livelihoods of the Nation’s citizens.",,"During FY 2014, the Department of Commerce made progress toward global understanding and prediction of changes in the environment through strong execution toward several key strategies supporting this objective:  deploy the next generation of satellites and observation and data gathering systems; advance holistic, integrative ecosystem research; develop the next-generation environmental modeling systems; and improve the understanding of greenhouse gas processes.  Accomplishments include:   	The Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite-R (GOES-R) Solar Ultraviolet Imager (SUVI) and Extreme Ultraviolet and X-ray Irradiance Sensors (EXIS) instruments passed their pre-ship reviews and were integrated onto the GOES-R spacecraft platform in early 2014. These instruments will observe the sun and space weather, including coronal mass ejections, solar flares and ion fluxes that can disrupt power grids, communication and navigation systems and create radiation hazards. 	NOAA’s Office of Marine and Aviation Operations, working with scientists from NOAA’s Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR), deployed the first ever unmanned system into a major hurricane to collect weather data designed to improve hurricane forecasting.  The Coyote unmanned aircraft system (UAS) was deployed into Hurricane Edouard’s eye from a NOAA WP-3D Orion “Hurricane Hunter” research aircraft documenting record-breaking winds of 100kts. 	On September 30, 2014, NOAA’s National Weather Service (NWS) transitioned the High Resolution Rapid Refresh (HRRR) model into operations.  The HRRR was developed over the past five years by researchers from NOAA’s OAR Earth System Research Laboratory.  HRRR provides forecasters more detailed, short-term information about quickly developing small-scale storms.  The HRRR allows NWS forecasters to better assess rapidly changing storms and has a spatial resolution four times finer than what is currently used in hourly updated NWS models.  These increased capabilities will help improve NWS warning times and ultimately increasing public safety during high impact storm events. 	In 2014, President Obama released an implementation plan for moving forward on his national strategy to advance U.S. security and stewardship interests in the Arctic.  In keeping with the goals and tenets of his strategy, NOAA released its Arctic Action Plan—a document that provides NOAA scientists, stakeholders and partners a roadmap to make shared progress in monitoring, understanding, and protecting this vast, valuable, and vulnerable region. 	NIST, NOAA, and University collaborators have completed and published an assessment of the measurement uncertainty of an aircraft-based methodology quantifying urban greenhouse gas emissions in Indianapolis, Indiana as part of the Indianapolis Flux Experiment (INFLUX).  This experiment seeks to quantify greenhouse gas emissions from an urban area using both top-down and bottom-up methods.  Indianapolis is the 1st of several urban test beds being developed by the Department. 	In FY 2014, NOAA and NIST employees contributed to 1766 peer-reviewed publications related to environmental understanding and prediction. 	In FY 2014, the share of data processed and delivered to the user community relative to all the data transmitted to NOAA from NOAA-managed satellites was 99.7%, vs. 99.5% in FY 2013.      Next Steps in FY 2015:                	FY2015 Q1 – Finish Global Forecast System (GFS) model with advanced physics in order to improve weather forecast accuracy. 	FY2015 Q1 – Release Arctic Report Card 2014 in order to present annually updated, peer-reviewed information on recent observations of environmental conditions in the Arctic relative to historical records. 	FY2015 Q1 – Establish the Los Angeles Carbon Project by initiating operation of real-time 13 observing point surface network for the Los Angeles Basin in order to define better individual emissions sources and environmental conditions. 	FY2015 Q2 – Complete JPSS System Integration Review in order to determine if the flight and ground segments are ready to be integrated into the overall system (which also includes facilities and personnel). 	FY2015 Q3 – Update concentrations of full suite of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere at all sites in the NOAA network in order to better define emissions sources and environmental conditions. 	FY2015 Q4 – Finalize Specifications for Ocean Survey Vessel 1 in order to deploy observation and data gathering systems.","Natural Resources and Environment",,,
