"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Commerce",6,DOC,"Expand the U.S. economy through increased exports and inward foreign investment that lead to more and better American jobs",574,1103,"Increase high-impact inward foreign direct investment in the United States (ITA, ESA, EDA)","Increase high-impact inward foreign direct investment into the United States (ITA, ESA, EDA)","The United States has been the world’s largest recipient of foreign direct investment since 2006.  Every day, foreign companies establish new operations in the United States or provide additional capital to existing businesses.  With the world’s largest consumer market, skilled and productive workers, highly innovative culture, strong and effective legal system, predictable regulatory environment, and low cost energy resources, the United States has an attractive investment climate.  In addition, the nation’s strong commitment to environmental protection adds sustainability to U.S. assets.  To remain a premier investment destination, the United States must continue to nurture and build upon these strengths that make firms want to invest here.     Foreign direct investment in the United States contributes significantly to U.S. economic growth and prosperity.  In 2011, value added by majority-owned U.S. affiliates of foreign companies accounted for 4.7 percent of total U.S. private output.  These firms employed 5.6 million people in the United States, or 4.1 percent of private-sector employment.  The United States competes with countries that have aggressive national programs to encourage businesses to move to or expand within their own borders.  In response to this competition, President Obama announced a federal SelectUSA initiative in 2011.  Led by the Department, SelectUSA, involves multiple Department bureaus, includes other federal agencies, and works alongside U.S. states and localities to advocate aggressively for the United States as a premier destination.  This coordinated federal effort assures the global investment community that America is open for business.  Furthermore, Department advocacy is backed up by capacity building grants to help communities create an economic ecosystem in which the private sector can leverage regional and community assets to promote foreign investment.",,"During FY 2014, the Department of Commerce (DOC) made strong progress toward increasing high-impact inward foreign direct investment into the United States through execution on several key strategies supporting this objective:  leading coordinated investment promotion; providing tailored assistance to investors; providing coordinated support to states and localities to attract investment; and advocating globally for the U.S. as an investment destination.  The SelectUSA program assisted more than 1,000 diverse investment clients from 83 countries and 23 industries - nearly 64% more clients assisted than in FY13 - and facilitated 15 investment deals totaling an estimated $2.1 billion and supporting more than 3,400 jobs.   The Federal Interagency Investment Working Group (IIWG), convened and chaired by SelectUSA in coordination the National Economic Council (NEC), continued to coordinate interagency activities to promote business investment and respond to specific federal regulatory issues that may impact business investment decisions.     Ensuring collaboration at the state and local levels to address a range of interests and objectives that vary state-by-state while maintaining geographic neutrality has proven to be a continuing challenge.  Moreover, if SelectUSA does not build program capacity and sustainability staffing up in headquarters and overseas, improving business processes, services and technology capabilities, then SelectUSA will not be able to scale up investment promotion and client management activities across DOC and the IIWG.      FY 2014 Accomplishments include:      	SelectUSA concluded three Memoranda of Intent (MOI) with the India Export-Import Bank, ProMexico, and Apex-Brazil to enhance cooperation and foster investment. 	SelectUSA successfully procured a comprehensive, accurate, and updated web-based database of all business incentives offered by U.S. states which will assist clients, including international firms, considering locating in the United States and will directly encourage, facilitate and accelerate business investment in the U.S. 	FY 14 investments as a result of SelectUSA assistance include: Lufthansa Technik, a German Aerospace company that invested $60 million to build a new aviation maintenance, repair, and overhaul facility; Richelieu Legwear, a Canadian textile company that invested $16 million in a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in North Carolina and is estimated to create 205 jobs over the next five years; Yuhuang Chemical, a Chinese chemical company that invested $1.85 billion for a methanol production investment in Louisiana that is estimated to create 400 new jobs; and Haifa Chemicals, an Israeli chemical company that invested $12 million in Georgia for the construction of a controlled release fertilizer manufacturing plant. 	SelectUSA leveraged 198 major events (e.g., industry trade shows, road shows, trade missions, media events) in 38 countries around the world, including in key focus markets such as the U.K., Germany, Italy, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, China, Singapore, Israel, India and Australia, to promote the United States to approximately 60,000 potential investors. 	The Economic Development Administration (EDA) awarded economic development grants to help communities and regions build the capacity to support inward investment.  These are, according to recipients, estimated to create and/or retain approximately 5,000 jobs and result in $2.9B in private investment. 	The Department, in conjunction with the International Economic Development Council (IEDC), hosted the third White House Forum on Economic Development, at which approximately 60 economic development leaders from across the country engaged on competitiveness issues, including inbound investment.      Next Steps in FY 2015:                                                                                                     	FY2015 Q1-2 – Identify IIWG priorities, objectives, capabilities, and strategic federal investment barriers to optimize client assistance. 	FY2015 Q2 – Host the 2015 SelectUSA Investment Summit on March 23-24, 2015. 	FY2015 Q1-4 – Engage Economic Development Organizations to provide state-by-state information and investment opportunities. 	FY2015 Q1-2 – Develop and expand a digital, online web presence and social media strategy that includes a range of tools and resources. 	FY2015 Q1-4 – Award and administer EDA grants.","International Affairs",1428,"FY14-15 : Companies assisted by Global Markets that achieve export objectives","Exports are important to U.S. economic prosperity. The International Trade Administration (ITA) is committed to providing high-quality assistance that helps U.S. companies achieve their export objectives. This priority goal focuses on improving the quality of assistance ITA’s trade and commercial specialists provide to companies. ITA’s delivery of substantive, high value-added assistance is affirmed when companies receiving this assistance respond that they have achieved their export objectives. The Global Markets business unit within ITA is the organizational lead on this priority goal. It is imperative that Global Markets staff worldwide – all of whom interact with U.S. companies – are unified behind a common goal that focuses on unique needs of our customers. The FY12 – FY13 baseline average percentage of companies assisted that achieved their export objectives is 67 percent for ITA’s fee-for-service clients. To achieve this priority goal, Global Markets has sought to understand individual U.S. company needs to be successful internationally and, subsequently, offered a customized approach that draws on the full resources available across ITA and the Federal Government to meet those needs. This strategic shift towards offering a more consultative approach steers ITA professionals toward identifying the problems and challenges with exporting, and designing holistic solutions. It focuses ITA on engaging with clients to offer substantive, high value-added assistance, such as helping companies select the best markets to enter, overcoming export trade barriers, or finding suitable international business partners."
