"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"National Science Foundation",422,NSF,"Transform the Frontiers of Science and Engineering",1165,1166,"Invest in fundamental research to ensure significant continuing advances across science, engineering, and education","Invest in fundamental research to ensure significant continuing advances across NSF science, engineering, and education.","This objective encompasses NSF’s largest and most important function – awarding grants to support research. This investment objective has a clear record of producing major new paradigms and technology disruptions that have the power to change our world and impact individual lives. Investments have led to major discoveries recognized by the most highly prized international awards. These types of investments have potentially high payoffs, but are not without risk, as major advances cannot result from every grant. It is rarely possible to predict whether any specific award will generate outcomes with important societal implications.  Rather, fundamental research will generate new knowledge that may in the future contribute, often in unpredictable ways, to addressing a national challenge.   Often, a long period of incremental advances in knowledge is needed to set the stage for the creative leaps that produce game-changing innovation.  It is vital to the successful realization of this strategic objective that NSF places a high priority on cultivating strong communities of fundamental researchers and intellectual pioneers across the globe, working both as individuals and in a variety of collaborative ways.  It is also important that NSF balance its portfolio with a mix of programs and funding modalities to ensure fundamental research is conducted across a wide variety of fields of science, engineering, and education.","Office of the Director","The Strategic Review examined mechanisms that NSF can use to overcome the barriers of our traditional, discipline-based organizational structure to advance science at the intersections of disciplines.  Available metrics and tools within NSF were used to assess the current status of funding for multidisciplinary research.   1. Are there effective metrics and tools within NSF to evaluate if a proposal or award involves multiple disciplines?  2. Are there sufficient opportunities and effective mechanisms for the research community to submit proposals that involve multiple disciplines, both within and outside of core programs at NSF?   The Strategic Review used several approaches to investigate whether NSF has effective tools to track multi-disciplinary research.  One approach compared different mechanisms of identifying multidisciplinary proposals using proposal and award data from one division.  Proposals were classified based on principal investigators (PI) self-classification, program reference codes, the disciplines of the PIs, disciplines of reviewers, co-funding between directorates, and text searchers for the term “interdisciplinary.”  Estimates of the percentage of proposals that were interdisciplinary using different indicators varied between 12 and 61 for this sample of proposals. Indicators where the PIs classify their own proposals suggest higher percentages of multi-disciplinarity.    Using the most conservative of these indicators, an analysis was done with a random sample of 20,000 proposals submitted to NSF between CY 2010 and CY 2014.  This NSF-wide analysis using the involvement of multiple investigators from different academic departments as the indicator of multi-disciplinarity found that the percentage of proposals submitted that involved multiple divisions varied little over the past 5 years, and varied only modestly across directorates, with an average of 16 percent.  This indicator clearly under-reported the number of multi-disciplinary proposals in programs where proposals were known to be multi-disciplinary.  The conclusion from these analyses was that NSF does not currently have appropriate indicators to allow meaningful analyses of multi-disciplinary research.   Opportunities for Action or Improvement • Develop effective assessment and data tracking methods such that NSF can objectively evaluate research involving multiple disciplines.",,40232,"FY16-17 : Invest strategically in public participation in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics research (PPSR)","Problem/Opportunity: Scientists, mathematicians, and engineers have involved the public in their research efforts to solve challenging problems for centuries in a variety of fields. For example, daily precipitation data collected by volunteers throughout the US have been used to develop more accurate, fine-grained models that improve weather forecasting, agriculture, and disaster risk analyses. Water quality and wildlife monitoring projects allow communities to understand their local environments in systematic ways and allow them to compare their findings with those from other areas. These types of activities have been referred to in a variety of ways. For this Agency Priority Goal, ""Public Participation in Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics Research"" (PPSR) is used as an overarching term that includes citizen science, crowdsourcing research, and similar activities. PPSR has grown significantly in the past decade, in part due to new technological tools that facilitate interactions between scientists and participants. There are a number of economic, societal, and technological trends that are increasing the variety and value of what public participation in research can accomplish. These trends include: the democratization of the tools needed to design and make a variety of items; the Maker Movement; the emergence of online communities with shared interests in projects such as exploration of diverse fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) by members of the public; and crowdfunding platforms that allow teams to raise funding for their projects. New technological tools also have facilitated crowdsourcing research, a process in which open calls are made for voluntary contributions to STEM problem-solving. These calls are typically either to a non-specified group of individuals (""the crowd"") or to individuals with specific expertise, thus leveraging the skills and knowledge of many.  Without public participants and their contributions, some STEM research that addresses challenging problems would not be practical or even possible, e.g., projects mandating data collection from many geographical locations or over long periods of time or projects that require expertise for analysis of data as well as large sets of visual or numeric data. PPSR approaches hold promise to continue to address new research questions and contribute to ongoing STEM research. Moreover, citizen science and crowdsourcing research provide opportunities for the broadest possible participation in learning how STEM research is done and in engaging in it directly. Participants include individuals from urban, suburban and rural communities; diverse economic, geographic, racial, ethnic, gender, and linguistic groups; and individuals with a range of abilities and disabilities. The motivation for PPSR may be derived from community concerns or may be researcher-led. The level of public involvement varies from being contributory (e.g., collecting and recording data) to collaborative (e.g., analyzing samples and discussing results) to co-created (in which the public might be involved in all phases of the scientific process from defining the question for investigation, to experimenting, analyzing, and reporting). Thus, people with various interests and abilities are often able to participate and contribute productively. With the opportunity to reach more people and therefore collect and analyze data sets more extensively than possible through the efforts of scientists alone, PPSR may go beyond simply enhancing our ability to do traditional STEM research better. Citizen science and crowdsourcing science enable us to pursue entirely new avenues of research and development that can only be achieved through public-scientist collaborations. The different perspectives and habits of mind that public participants can bring to bear on the interpretation of data may also open new avenues of research and development. Over the past decade, NSF has funded hundreds of STEM research projects that rely on PPSR across a diverse array of fields.  The scope of PPSR is broad and encompasses geosciences and biological sciences, technology and engineering, social and behavioral sciences, education, computer and information sciences, and physical sciences. These projects collectively have created a strong foundation for future PPSR activities and have identified areas for potential improvement and expansion.  The next phase of NSF investments will expand beyond project-by-project approaches to explore underlying issues and areas for innovation.  In particular, this next phase could help identify: new research challenges that might be addressed using PPSR; new PPSR-enabling technology; social aspects of working with the public; effective PPSR program design; learning experience facilitated by PPSR; ways in which PPSR can broaden participation in STEM; and a myriad of data-related issues, including data quality and collection, data management, visualization, and data ownership models. This phase of investments should also prompt the broader community to tackle long-standing but unresolved STEM challenges and to open doors to new STEM research areas. To achieve this Agency Priority Goal NSF will use three specific mechanisms to fund proposals that explicitly include PPSR approaches:  Research Coordination Networks (RCNs), EArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGERs), and supplements to existing awards. Research Coordination Networks support communication and coordination across disciplinary, organizational, institutional, and geographic boundaries, thus facilitating ongoing activities above the project level. EAGERs are designed as ""high risk-high payoff"" awards. These types of awards will likely push our collective understandings of how PPSR is leveraged to support scientific discovery and the public's engagement with research. Supplements to existing awards provide opportunities to (1) include PPSR approaches in projects that are appropriate for PPSR but haven't already incorporated PPSR approaches and (2) for other projects to deepen their use of PPSR approaches. This Agency Priority Goal also takes advantage of the Executive Branch's momentum in this area. For example, the White House honored Citizen Science Champions of Change and included citizen science projects and opportunities in its recent science fair. Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) rolled out a new toolkit for federal-sponsored PPSR projects on September 30, 2015 and issued a memo with actions for federal agencies with respect to PPSR. Among the public communities that NSF serves, this Agency Priority Goal is relevant and timely. It addresses the need for investments in PPSR as articulated in recent journals, such as Science; at conferences, such as the citizen science pre-conference workshop at AAAS in 2015; and by practitioner organizations, such as the Citizen Science Association. Relationship to agency strategic goals and objectives PPSR projects have both scientific value and educational value.  Thus, PPSR supports NSF Strategic Goal 1, Objective 1 (""Invest in fundamental research to ensure significant continuing advances across science, engineering, and education"") and NSF Strategic Goal 2, Objective 2 (""Build the capacity of the Nation to address societal challenges using a suite of formal, informal and broadly available STEM educational mechanisms""). Key barriers and challenges to its achievement 1. Coordinate cross-program and cross-directorate investments that enhance both an understanding of and ability to implement PPSR approaches. 2. Manage expectations among colleagues across the federal government and public sphere as PPSR is further developed to support their daily work. External factors OSTP and the Federal Community of Practice for Citizen Science and Crowdsourcing (FCPCSC) have directly contributed to development of this Agency Priority Goal.  In addition, activities by federal agencies and offices related to open innovation, citizen science, and crowdsourcing research will inform the state of the field with respect to challenges and opportunities in PPSR."
