"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"National Science Foundation",422,NSF,"Stimulate Innovation and Address Societal Needs through Research and Education",1169,1170,"Strengthen the links between fundamental research and societal needs through investments and partnerships","Strengthen the links between fundamental research and societal needs through investments and partnerships","The first part of NSF’s mission, as expanded by the first strategic goal, is to create new knowledge and expand the Nation’s intellectual capital. However, NSF's mission does not end there. We also must connect new knowledge to innovations that address societal needs above and beyond the need for advancement in science. This strategic objective is aimed at developing connections between new insights and global challenges (often involving essential interdisciplinary collaborations, prototypes, and technologies). It also entails educating a workforce capable of using and adapting discoveries to meet society’s needs.  One approach to developing these connections is through partnerships involving other government agencies and private and international entities.  Such partnerships leverage NSF resources and help ensure that fundamental research outcomes are translated into benefits to society.","Office of the Director","The Strategic Review of this goal and objective considered how access to large-scale, NSF-funded data repositories advances national health, prosperity, and welfare, and the critical barriers to making NSF-funded scientific data more broadly available and enduring. It also examined whether existing NSF mechanisms are sufficient to inform relevant communities about data repositories.  1. How does access to NSF-funded data repositories advance national health, prosperity, and welfare?  NSF, along with other federal agencies, has funded hundreds of data repositories.  Efforts redoubled in 2013 in response to OSTP’s call to make publically-funded research more available.  Three ways repositories contribute to societal needs are:  • Access to high quality data encourages innovation by lowering the technical and resource barriers to innovation and engaging a global research community. • Expanded access to enduring, quality data expands the accepted scholarly record to include the preservation of the observational, experimental, and computational data that is rapidly accumulating in every field of science. • Increased access to data leverages the public research investments that result in data generated by surveys, mobile and embedded systems, sensors, observing systems, scientific instruments, experiments, simulations, evaluations and analyses.  2. What are some of the critical barriers to making NSF-funded scientific data more broadly available and enduring?  One of the barriers is that infrastructure is limited.  There are few existing long-term, deep archives that are readily suitable for data deposit.  Tools for search and discovery, and pathways for data transfer to repositories at project end need to be improved.  There is also the need for more consistent data citation standards and the use of persistent data identifiers.   Another barrier is that roles and responsibilities are still evolving and this leads to uncertainty.  This is true in the research community regarding data management practices, dissemination, and attribution/re-use.  At NSF, roles regarding data policies in proposal review and portfolio management are evolving.  Among federal agencies, roles for coordination, planning, and assessing data efforts are also changing.   Financial resources are needed to address disciplinary/strategic data repository needs, to ensure the sustainability of major NSF-funded community data facilities, and to enable “long tail” continued use of data repositories.  3. What are the mechanisms in place within NSF to inform relevant communities about data repositories, and are they sufficient?   Several, disparate repository efforts are found across the agency in various programs. The Public Access Plan1  provides high-level guidance and clearly states NSF’s firm commitment to data access and preservation. The Cyber-infrastructure Coordinating and Leadership Group (CI-CLG) is exploring current efforts in data and cyberinfrastructure priorities of the various directorates, and relevant gaps and opportunities.  Opportunities for Action or Improvement • Refine data management guidance and practices (see, e.g., NSF’s Public Access Plan, Sections 7.2.2-7.2.3, 7.3.2, 7.4.2); • Identify and expand use of partnerships to support creation and sustainability of data management resources.   1 www.nsf.gov/pubs/2015/nsf15052/nsf15052.pdf","General Science, Space, and Technology",1193,"FY14-15 : Increase the Nation’s Data Science Capacity","Innovative information technologies are transforming the fabric of society, and data represent a transformative new currency for science, education, government, and commerce.  Data are everywhere; they are produced in rapidly increasing volume and variety by virtually all scientific, educational, governmental, societal and commercial enterprises. (For more information see “Dealing with Data,” Science Magazine, Volume 331, February 11, 2011.) Today we live in an era of data and information.  This era is enabled by modern experimental methods and observational studies; large-scale simulations; scientific instruments, such as telescopes and particle accelerators; Internet transactions, email, videos, images, and click streams; and the widespread deployment of sensors everywhere – in the environment, in our critical infrastructure, such as in bridges and smart grids, in our homes, and even on our clothing.  Every day, 2.5 quintillion bytes of data are generated – so much that 90 percent of the data in the world today has been created in the last two years alone (http://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/bigdata/). It is important to note that when we talk about big data it is not just the enormous volume of data that needs to be emphasized, but also the heterogeneity, velocity, and complexity that collectively create the science and engineering challenges we face today. In December 2010, the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) published a report to the President and Congress entitled: Designing a Digital Future: Federally Funded Research and Development in Networking and Information Technology. (http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/pcast-nitrd-report-2010.pdf) In that report, PCAST pointed to the research challenges involved in large-scale data management and analysis and the critical role of Networking and Information Technology (NIT) in moving from data to knowledge to action, underpinning the Nation’s future prosperity, health and security. Through long-term, sustained investments in foundational computing, communications and computational research, and the development and deployment of large-scale facilities and cyberinfrastructure, federal agency R&D investments over the past several decades have both helped generate this explosion of data as well as advance our ability to capture, store, analyze, and use these data for societal benefit.  More specifically, we have seen fundamental advances in machine learning, knowledge representation, natural language processing, information retrieval and integration, network analytics, computer vision, and data visualization, which together have enabled Big Data applications and systems that have the potential to transform all aspects of our lives. These investments are already starting to pay off, demonstrating the power of Big Data approaches across science, engineering, medicine, commerce, education, and national security, and laying the foundations for U.S. competitiveness for many decades to come.  But much more needs to be done, particularly in four areas: 1) basic research; 2) data infrastructure; 3) education and workforce development; and 4) community outreach. NSF can catalyze progress in these areas by developing programs to engage the research community, and by creating mechanisms to catalyze the development of people and infrastructure to address the challenges posed by this new flood of data. NSF will help increase the number of data scientists engaged in academic research, development, and implementation.  As defined in the 2005 NSB publication of Long-lived Digital Data Collections: Enabling Research and Education in the 21st Century defines data scientists as “the information and computer scientists, database and software programmers, disciplinary experts, curators, and expert annotators, librarians, archivists and others, who are crucial to the successful management of a digital data collection.” Using its ability to convene diverse sets of stakeholders, NSF will promote multi-stakeholder partnerships by supporting workshops and follow-on activities that bring together representatives of industry, academia, not-for-profit organizations, and other entities to address current and future big-data challenges.  NSF will also leverage existing programs, such as the NSF Research Traineeship (NRT) and the Graduate Research Fellowship (GRF) programs, and create new programs and tracks to current programs, as needed, to support the creation of more researchers and students competent in the deep analytical and technical skills required to address those challenges. NSF will develop strategies to build and sustain data infrastructure for the 21st century through CIF21. NSF will coordinate with other agencies through the National Science and Technology Council to achieve this goal."
