"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Housing and Urban Development",25,HUD,"Achieving Operational Excellence",1181,1190,"Reduce the cost of leased space, utilities, travel and other related costs by adapting our business processes","Reduce the cost of leased space, utilities, travel and other related costs by adapting our business processes.","Even despite recent advances in programs such as telework and alternative work schedules, HUD has historically operated with a traditional definition of the workplace. This objective intends to help HUD redefine the workplace as more than just an office, but rather the combination of people and information brought together by technology which allows work to be done at any appropriate location.   In order to measure our success in this endeavor, HUD intends to reduce the amount of space per employee and contractor. Ultimately, this will reduce the total dollars that we spend on leased space, building maintenance, utilities, travel, and other related costs. In order to achieve these efficiencies, HUD will work with the General Services Administration to identify opportunities to reduce space through better use of technology and expanded use of external resources and partnerships.   Additionally, HUD could better meet our customers’ needs by more appropriately distributing our workload and personnel by organizational unit. HUD will assess its current staff allocation, workload distribution and community needs in order to align resources to better serve our customers. In this effort, our goal is not to save money at the expense of our customers, but rather to replace outdated business practices with new business models, ultimately producing greater efficiencies, saving money, establishing sustainable business models, and most importantly better serving our customers.","Office of Administration","HUD is designating the Organizational Structure objective as a focus area for improvement. The Department has seen an increase in dollars spent on leased space, building maintenance, utilities, travel, and other related costs. The Department is identifying opportunities to reduce space through better technology and is consolidating field offices from the Office of Multifamily Housing. The Department continues to partner with GSA to identify unneeded leased space. ",,,,
