"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Small Business Administration",28,SBA,"Growing businesses and creating jobs",596,1194,"Enhance exporting abilities to succeed in global markets","Enhance the ability of current and future small business exporters to succeed in global markets by expanding access to financing, counseling, training and other export tools","Export sales contribute to a strong middle class by fueling economic opportunity and jobs in communities across the United States, while the countries buying American products gain access to some of the highest-quality products and services in the world.  Today, nearly 96 percent of consumers and over two-thirds of the world's purchasing power reside outside the United States.  Small businesses that can tap into this global market have the potential for vast expansion and growth, with small businesses now constituting 34 percent of total export dollars and comprising approximately 97.8 percent of all exporters.","Office of International Trade (OIT)","In FY 2015, the SBA guaranteed $1.45 billion in loans to small business exporters.  The Agency accomplished this result by continuing to train more than 4,300 lenders and hosting the Eighth Annual SBA Export Lenders Roundtable.  The Agency participated with 514 lenders to provide financing to 1,513 small business exporters, exceeding the second goal of 1,480 small businesses financed.","Commerce and Housing Credit",1196,"FY14-15 : Expand the base of lenders for small business exporters","The priority goal is directly tied to the objective of both the National Export Initiative (NEI) and the Export Promotion Cabinet (EPC) to expand SME access to trade financing, which has been identified as a gap issue for smaller exporters.  Increasing access to export financing, combined with trade counseling and training, will contribute to the enhanced ability of current and future U.S. small business exporters to succeed in the global marketplace and supports the cross-agency goal of doubling U.S. exports.  There are barriers and challenges to the SBA in achieving its priority goals: From a marketing perspective, communicating and disseminating trade financing information to lenders and small business exporters could provide challenging given current, and anticipated, budget constraints on staffing. Inter-agency collaboration and joint initiatives can be challenging to manage, given the differing regulations and performance metrics of individual agencies, which might reduce the commitment of other agencies to help support this priority. Unique, and sometimes additional, Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) requirements for core export loans vs. other 7(a) loan products can confuse lenders and may require the creation of “Lender Training Manuals,” more extensive lender training, and Office of Capital Access support in implementing needed SOP revisions. In terms of operations, a reduced travel budget could greatly restrict the ability of field staff to deliver the necessary training to lenders and businesses that would expand the use of SBA loan programs for exporters, given that SBA's specialized trade finance specialists cover multiple states. The banking sector could receive another “financial shock,” forcing it to tighten lending requirements to small businesses and/or Basel III capital requirements could limit lending capacity.*  U.S. export growth could slow, reducing demand for trade financing, as a result of slow overseas economic growth and/or a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, making U.S. exports less competitive.   Trade financing historically has been perceived by many lenders, especially community banks, as being too complex to be incorporated into their suite of financial products. Working with other federal agencies, SBA will help reduce the complexity of USG trade financing and export marketing programs and highlight the growing importance of exports to the U.S. economy, thereby encouraging more lenders to offer comprehensive business solutions to their export customers.  In addition, SBA will leverage its outreach by working with state, federal, and other resource partners in order to promote customized trade financing options to the small business exporting community."
