"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of the Interior",10,DOI,"Secure America's Energy Resources",535,1258,"Ensure Environmental Compliance and Safety of Energy Development Activities","Ensure environmental compliance and the safety of energy development.","Four Department bureaus, Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSMRE), Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE), Bureau of Land Management (BLM), and Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM), oversee responsible energy development on private, public, and tribal lands and waters.  Safety, environmental, and conservation compliance activities safeguard the Nation’s onshore and offshore energy resources, and mitigate the effects of mining on natural resources, including the protection and restoration of coal effected lands.  These efforts are also key to maintaining the public’s confidence that energy development can be and is subject to strong and effective oversight.","BSEE, BOEM, BLM, OSMRE","The Department of the Interior, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, has determined that performance toward this objective is making noteworthy progress.   Performance has been consistent through FY 2015 due in large part to the Department’s robust reform agenda, including improved regulation, inspection and enforcement, and an increased focus on high-risk activities.  The Department is working diligently to address oil and gas managemrnt issues stemming from its inclusion on the Government Accountability Office’s high risk list, including developing rules to replace Onshore Orders for oil and gas site security, measurement of oil and measurement of gas.  Recently updated Federal well-drilling regulations provide a framework  of safeguards and disclosure protocols for hydraulic fracturing, ensuring that energy development continues to be conducted in an environmentally responsible manner.  The Deopartment is also successfully implementing recommendations related to recruitment, retention, and relocation of specialized technical and scientific personnel needed to carry out safety and compliance oversight work, which bolsters improvement for both onshore and offshore oversight.  In FY 2015, depressed gas prices resulted in fewer new well starts enabling the Department to reclaim a greater percentage of oil and gas acres.   Modest increases also occurred in coal reclamation as a result of reclamation taking place faster than the anticipated pace of new mining.  Preliminary estimates for recordable injuries indicate approximately 33% fewer injuries than previous years as there have been fewer incidents relative to the past few years.  The BLM did not meet the target for production related inspections due to the shift in focus during the last 2 years on completing ""high risk"" inspections under the risk based strategy.",Energy,474,"FY14-15 : Oil and gas resource management","Problem or opportunity being addressed The inspection of high risk producing oil and gas cases is paramount to help ensure that hydrocarbon production on federally managed lands are properly accounted for and results in accurate royalty payments to the public and Indian owners of such minerals.Oil and gas production on federally supervised lands represent a significant part of the nation’s hydrocarbon production.Operating regulations at 43 CFR 3161.3 (a) require the BLM to inspect all leases which produce high volumes of oil or natural gas and those leases that have a history of non-compliance at least once a year.The high risk cases are determined by four risk factors: production rating; number of missing Oil and Gas Operations Reports (OGOR); non-compliance rating; and, last production inspection date rating.   This effort is a component of addressing the deficiencies identified in the GAO High Risk report, which identified the areas for needed improvement including:   ensuring data on production verification and royalties are consistent and reliable, meeting goals for oil and gas verification inspections, and ensuring that informal employee training is supported by formalized training courses offered on a consistent basis. Relationship to agency strategic goals and objectives Achieving a high rate of inspecting high risk producing cases will advance the BLM’s mission by ensuring that oil and gas operations are conducted in compliance with lease terms, with the regulations in title 43 CFR 3161.3 (a), and all other applicable regulations.  The BLM is charged, in Section 101. (a) of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982, with procedures to ensure that each federal and Indian lease site which is producing or is expected to produce significant quantities of oil or gas in any year or which has a history of non-compliance be inspected at least once annually. Key barriers and challenges  The Bureau is limited in its ability to meet the requirement of inspecting all high risk cases by the number of certified inspectors available to inspect these cases.  Competing priorities take time from these inspectors in completing high risk production inspections.  High priority drilling and abandonment inspections must be completed prior to high risk production inspections.  In addition the Bureau has historically had a high turnover of certified inspectors. Stakeholder Engagement The Government Accountability Office (GAO) and the Department of the Interior Office of Inspector General (OIG) has pointed out the failure of the BLM to adequately ensure production of federal and Indian minerals.  The BLM answered the requests from both the GAO and OIG.  This Priority Goal was created to help address some of the identified concerns while providing a forum by which the Department can continue to track the progress toward addressing the other concerns identified by GAO.  The goal was developed in concert with the White House and released with the President’s FY 2013 Budget."
