"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Justice",11,DOJ,"Prevent Crime, Protect the Rights of the American People, and Enforce Federal Law",555,1326,"Prevent and intervene in crimes against vulnerable populations","Prevent and intervene in crimes against vulnerable populations and uphold the rights of, and improve services to, America’s crime victims","The Department must continue to be vigilant in supporting and protecting the most vulnerable segments of our population that may fall victim to crime.  Children are the most vulnerable and most exploited members of our society.  The criminal victimization of children impacts not only the children, but also their families, community, and society at large.     Unfortunately, children are but one segment of society that is at risk.  In the United States and across the globe, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, and stalking occur in all ages, races, socioeconomic classes, genders, and sexual orientations.  Research shows that these crimes are overwhelmingly committed against women.  In addition, elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation is an area that has been overlooked but research suggests it is an ongoing problem in the United States.  Further, victims of crime committed on tribal lands is also an area that has been overlooked for far too long as research suggests violent crime rates may be two, four, and in some cases, 10 times the national average.     The Department continues to stress efforts to reduce and respond to violence against vulnerable populations.  In April of 2013, the Department issued a revised Sexual Assault Forensic Examination Protocol to standardize up-to-date approaches to victim-centered forensic medical examinations.  DOJ will also work with the FBI to support states’ implementation of the revised Uniform Crime Report definition of “rape.”  As part of the Attorney General’s Defending Childhood Initiative, the Department will: launch a public awareness and community action campaign to stem youth violence; establish a Task Force on American Indian/Alaska Native Children Exposed to Violence; and partner with select states to form “State Commissions” that will implement model public policy initiatives at the state and local level to reduce the impact of children’s exposure to violence.     All victims deserve to be treated with respect and support.  The Department will address the needs of victims by investigating and prosecuting matters impacting vulnerable groups while leading the way in providing innovative training, resources, and support to victims of crime.",OJP,"Strategic Objective Review Summary of Findings: On track and making satisfactory progress  The Department of Justice remains committed to preventing crimes against our society’s most vulnerable populations and protecting the rights of crime victims.  Recognizing that children are the most vulnerable and exploited members in our society, America’s Missing: Broadcast Emergency Response (AMBER) alerts became a coordinated national effort in October 2002.  Since then, over 90 percent of abducted children identified through these alerts have been recovered.  The USMS, along with the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, (NCMEC) created and implemented Sex Offender Investigation Coordinator (SOIC) Basic Training for SOICs and state and local investigators; training approximately 600 full-time and collateral duty SOICs and more than 100 state and local investigators.  INTERPOL Washington’s Human Trafficking and Child Protection Division leveraged specialized investigative tools and services to help identify, locate, and apprehend individuals engaged in transnational crime, including the exploitation of children.  CRM’s Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section (CEOS) began monitoring the degree to which CEOS’s investigations involved collaborative, or complex, investigations.   In FY 2015, the Department greatly surpassed its target of 3,051 open investigations concerning sexual exploitation of children, and exceeded its target for open investigations concerning human trafficking.  OVW created and subsequently expanded a domestic violence homicide reduction initiative, while the Department undertook a number of steps to increase awareness of laws banning Female Genital Mutilation and Cutting, including hosting meetings in cities with large numbers of at-risk girls.   Though the Department has been successful in their efforts to protect and support our nation’s most vulnerable populations, there are many obstacles for this strategic objective.  DOJ’s ability to help victims is limited by many factors, including the stigma and fear felt by victims when seeking help.  Also, large amounts of data and obstacles to obtaining evidence often complicate investigations and require more resources.  The growth of transnational organizations places an increasing burden on the Department’s international components; and the encryption of data and “going dark” makes it difficult to collect and use evidence.  Finally, it is challenging for the Department to ensure victims of federal crimes in Indian Country receive the services they need, and are able to participate in the criminal justice process.   Moving into FY 2016, the Department will continue its Vulnerable People Priority Goal; focusing on increasing the number of investigations concerning child exploitation, human trafficking, and non-compliant sex-offenders; and developing and enhancing programs to better serve victims in Indian Country.  DOJ will continue to support state, local, and tribal criminal and juvenile justice practitioners and victim assistance providers through innovative partnerships; and work to improve services and support efforts to assist victims of human trafficking.","Administration of Justice",466,"FY14-15 : Vulnerable People","The abuse, neglect, exploitation, and trafficking of children, the elderly, and other vulnerable populations, causes irrevocable harm to victims and society.  Ensuring that our children, seniors, and all citizens can live without being disturbed by sexual trauma, physical abuse, or financial exploitation is more than a criminal justice issue; it is a societal and moral imperative.  Despite efforts to date, the threat of these crimes remains very real.  In the broadest terms, the goal of the Department of Justice (the Department or DOJ) is to prevent child sexual exploitation, elder abuse, and human trafficking from occurring in the first place, in order to protect every person from the physical and mental traumas associated with these crimes."
