"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Justice",11,DOJ,"Ensure and Support the Fair, Impartial, Efficient, and Transparent Administration of Justice at the Federal, State, Local, Tribal, and International Levels",556,1336,"Adjudicate all immigration cases","Adjudicate all immigration cases promptly and impartially in accordance with due process","Advancing the fair, expeditious, and uniform application of the Nation's immigration laws is a priority for the Department.  Enforcing these laws is a sensitive and complex process that may involve initiatives and activities of DHS or raise fundamental questions regarding the authority of the Executive Branch and the respective roles of Congress and the courts.     Under delegated authority from the Attorney General, EOIR interprets and administers federal immigration laws by conducting immigration court proceedings, appellate reviews, and administrative hearings.  The Department’s ability to process cases in a timely fashion directly affects DHS’ ability to remove criminal or other removable aliens expeditiously and to efficiently use its detention resources.     In addition to these efforts, the Civil Division’s Office of Immigration Litigation (OIL) expertly defends government agencies in immigration-related litigation and issues that arise from EOIR decisions, such as when aliens file petitions for review in the circuit courts of appeals.  The caseload for OIL is directly tied to DHS’s adjudications and immigration enforcement, to the Department of State’s adjudication of passport applications, to the number of Immigration and Customs Enforcement referrals for denaturalization, to Department of Labor actions regarding immigrant labor, and to the immigration adjudication rates of the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA).  OIL will continue to implement efficiencies and effectively manage its resources to meet this demanding workload.",EOIR,"Strategic Objective Review Summary of Findings: The Department of Justice, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, has highlighted this objective a Focus Area for Improvement  EOIR’s immigration courts represent the Department’s front-line presence with respect to the application of immigration law.  In July 2014, EOIR acted to prioritize the cases of unaccompanied children and families who are not detained in addition to its existing priority caseload of detained aliens.  This reprioritization was in direct response to the border surge in summer 2014, and in support of the Administration’s effort to address the reasons for individuals leaving their home countries and the perceptions that led people to come into the U.S., both of which contributed to an unusually high number of people crossing the southwest border.  In part because of the surge of immigrants falling into these categories, cases that did not meet these characterizations generally took longer to adjudicate.  In addition, EOIR did not meet its performance measure targets for the percentage of Institutional Hearing Program cases completed before release or for the percentage of detained cases completed within 60 days.  Challenges related to Immigration Judge hiring has also had a significant impact on EOIR’s adjudicatory capacity.   The immigration court caseload is tied directly to DHS enforcement and detention activities.  DHS determines both initial detention decisions and whether to file a charging document with the immigration court.  Thus, the volume and nature of EOIR’s caseload is driven by the Department of Homeland Security.  In addition, EOIR’s caseload and the nature and complexity of the cases before it are impacted by changes to immigration law.      In order to address these challenges, EOIR is hiring immigration judges to increase the size of the immigration judge corps, thereby augmenting adjudicatory capacity and working to reduce the case backlog and wait times for those in proceedings.  EOIR is also making organizational changes, at Headquarters and in the individual immigration courts, to increase efficiencies through better communication and providing more direct supervision.  EOIR is leveraging technology to assist those who appear before our adjudicators by allowing for real-time information flow.  In addition, EOIR also continues to evaluate its priority caseload to ensure that it concentrates resources on a reasonable number of priority cases to ensure that those cases are being adjudicated as fairly and as quickly as possible.","Administration of Justice",,,
