"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Justice",11,DOJ,"Ensure and Support the Fair, Impartial, Efficient, and Transparent Administration of Justice at the Federal, State, Local, Tribal, and International Levels",556,1391,"Strengthen the government-to-government relationship between tribes and the United States","Strengthen the government-to-government relationship between tribes and the United States, improve public safety in Indian Country, and honor treaty and trust responsibilities through consistent, coordinated policies, activities, and litigation","The Department bears a great responsibility to American Indian and Alaska Native Tribes to help build and sustain safe and secure native communities, to meet our treaty and trust responsibilities to Tribes, and to respect the sovereignty of tribal governments. Tribal communities face immense and urgent challenges to public safety, tribal sovereignty, and cultural preservation.  The Department of Justice, alongside other federal agencies working in Indian Country, is charged with helping tribal communities overcome those challenges. The work of the Department in Indian Country covers almost every function of the Department, including law enforcement and prosecution; tax, civil, and civil rights litigation; corrections; legislative and policy development; and grant making and program implementation. Interdepartmental collaboration in the development of policy, review of litigating positions, and support of programs is critical to ensuring a unified federal government presence in Indian Country and promoting progress in ongoing efforts to strengthen native communities.",OTJ,"Strategic Objective Review Summary of Findings: On track and making satisfactory progress  The Department strengthens government-to-government relations between tribes and the United States through such bodies such as the Tribal Nations Leadership Council, which met 11 times in FY 2015.  The Council facilitates dialogue and coordinates efforts between the Department and tribal governments, and provides direct access between to tribal leaders across the country and the Department’s senior leadership.  Coordination of policies, activities, and litigation relating to Indian Country is critical to this objective’s success, and the Department uses several approaches to tribal coordination both within DOJ and with other federal agencies.  The Indian Civil Litigation and Policy Working Group began meeting in spring 2013, and informs litigating and policy-oriented components across the Department of crosscutting or significant Indian law matters and other issues.  DOJ and the Department of the Interior/Bureau of Indian Affairs coordination of funding for construction and maintenance of correctional facilities in Indian Country has streamlined processes at both agencies, enabled feedback from Tribes, and led to a long-term approach to developing correctional facilities in Indian Country.  The Advisory Committee of the Attorney General’s Task Force on American Indian and Alaska Native Children Exposed to Violence released a report outlining significant policy recommendations to the Justice Department.  Shortly after, the Department adopted a Statement of Principles to guide and inform all of its interactions with federal-recognized Indian tribes.       The Department also works proactively to assist victims of violence, domestic violence, and sexual assault in Indian Country.  The Department-organized Intertribal Technical-Assistance Working Group, consisting of voluntary tribal representatives, exchanges views, information, and advice, peer to peer, about how tribes can best exercise special domestic violence criminal jurisdiction, combat domestic violence, recognize victims’ rights and safety needs, and fully protect defendants’ rights.  To aid in the creation of a national strategy to enhance the ability of tribal governments and their partners’ response to sexual violence, the Office of Victims of Crime established a multi-disciplinary working group of Indian Country professionals, with significant experience in developing a coordinated community response to sexual violence.  In July of 2015, DOJ created the Federal Victims in Indian Country (FedVIC) Working Group to address the needs of federal victims in Indian Country.  FedVIC members include federal prosecutors, investigators, and victim assistance personnel, and are focused on identifying gaps in victim services and developing proposed solutions.   The most significant challenges faced by Department in relation to this objective include high rates of violent crimes in Indian Country and securing apporpriate resources for tribal law enforcement.  DOJ was able to fund 33 percent of applications for funding from the Consolidated Tribal Assistance Solicitation in FY 2015, leaving numerous qualified applicants unfunded.  In addition to continuing the initiatives described above the Department is working to improve its performance measures related Indian Country to better reflect the progress of strengthening relationships and improving public safety on tribal lands. ","Administration of Justice",,,
