"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of the Interior",10,DOI,"Improve the Quality of Life in Tribal and Native Communities",1803,1804,"Support self-governance and self-determination","Support self-governance and self-determination.","Self-governance and self-determination strengthen the government-to-government relationship between the Federal Government and tribal nations. Together, these programs support and strengthen Tribal self-governance, sovereignty, self-determination, and self-reliance, applying local expertise and knowledge to managing tribal functions and services. ",BIA,"This strategy focuses on the accountability aspects of supporting tribal self-governance and self-determination programs.   Tribes operating under self-governance and self-determination demonstrate financial statement accuracy and compliance with generally accepted accounting principles by obtaining “clean audits.”  In recent years, performance on tribal audits has fluctuated between 70 and 80 percent.  In FY 2015, the Department exceeded its targets for both clean audits and timeliness of management actions on audits and recommendations.  Increased performance resulted from training new tribes and employees, increased communication with tribal points of contact for resolving audit findings, and an additional 0.5 FTE at the Department dedicated to managing audits and contract support for self-governance tribes.   	Self-Determination:  Under a self-determination contract, a tribe contracts with BIA to take over operation of a program formerly operated by BIA.  The funds BIA previously used to run the program transfer to the tribe.  Self-determination typically is a program-by-program decision.  The Indian Self-Determination Program within BIA works to further American Indian Tribes’ exercise of Self-Determination and conducts oversight of self-determination contracts and grants.    	Self-Governance:  Under a self-governance compact, a tribe takes over most or all of BIA operations affecting that tribe.  The Office of Self-Governance (OSG) implements the Tribal Self Governance Act of 1994 by developing and implementing regulations, policies, and guidance in support of self-governance initiatives.  OSG advocates for the transfer of Federal programmatic authorities and resources to tribal governments and supports Tribal sovereignty and an expanded role in the operation of Indian programs.  The program work includes negotiating annual funding agreements with eligible tribes and consortia, coordinating budget and performance data collection from self-governance tribes, and resolving issues identified in financial and program audits of self-governance operations.","Community and Regional Development",,,
