"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of the Interior",10,DOI,"Manage Water and Watersheds for the 21st Century",1263,1808,"Better ensure the future of watersheds against the impact of climate change","Better ensure the future of watersheds against impacts of climate change.","Through the Basin Studies, Reclamation works with non-Federal stakeholders to analyze the risks and impacts of climate change to water resources in river basins across the 17 western states.  The Basin Studies are selected through a competitive process using established criteria and are cost-shared with non-Federal partners.  Each Study includes state-of-the-art projections of future water supply and demand, i.e. analyze how well existing water and power infrastructure are meeting current demands, and then forecast the ability to meet future demands.  The Studies identify adaptation strategies and actions for non-structural (i.e. management and operations) and structural (i.e. improvement) changes to address projected imbalances in supply and demand.",BOR,"Reclamation has completed 12 Basin Studies, cumulatively, since 2012, including the Milk/St. Mary’s, Lower Rio Grande, Colorado River, Santa Ana, Yakima, Southeast California, Henry’s Fork of the Snake River, Hood River, Sante Fe, Truckee, Niobrara, and Sacramento-San Joaquin Rivers. The goal for FY 2016 is to complete a total of 15 studies by September 30, 2016.  For 2015, the goal of completing 14 basin studies, cumulatively since 2012, was not met. An extension was granted to two of the Basin Studies, Klamath River and Pecos River, to allow additional time to complete modeling work. The delay is not expected to impact the FY 2016 goal.","Natural Resources and Environment",,,
