"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of State and USAID",14,DOSUSAID,"Promote the Transition to a Low-Emission, Climate-Resilient World while Expanding Global Access to Sustainable Energy ",2012,2110,"Promote Energy Security, Access to Clean Energy, and the Transition to a Cleaner Global Economy","Promote Energy Security, Access to Clean Energy, and the Transition to a Cleaner Global Economy","The geopolitics of energy is being transformed, as traditional energy producers address the steeply rising demand from the developing world.  Changes in production patterns, such as the Western Hemisphere becoming a larger fossil fuel producer, are altering the global dynamic.  The viability of new energy technologies, such as new ways to produce natural gas, and the steep fall in the cost of renewables, are changing energy market trade and consumption patterns.  At the same time, worldwide nearly 1.3 billion people lack access to electricity and 2.7 billion do not have a safe way to cook food.  Although Africa has abundant renewable and hydrocarbon potential, 69 percent of people in sub-Saharan Africa lack access to electricity.  According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), global demand for electricity will grow 70 percent by 2035, faster than any other final form of energy.  Over 80 percent of this global growth will be in non- OECD countries, with China and India accounting for half.  State and USAID are committed to working with our global partners to establish commercially viable energy sectors that can attract investment to expand access to energy, increase the use of clean energy and energy-efficient technologies, and ensure responsible, transparent, and effective stewardship of energy resources.  Global access to reliable, affordable energy is vital to our economic, environment, foreign policy, and development priorities.  The Department of State and USAID join together our diplomatic and programmatic efforts to build sustainable, transparent, and predictable international energy markets that advance U.S. national interests, our environmental goals, and a strong global economy.  Our prosperity and that of our international allies and partners depend on global markets for traded energy commodities such as oil and natural gas.  While we must protect our energy security today, we must also foster international cooperation toward a global clean energy and energy-efficient future.  Engaging developing nations, which will be the largest contributors to growth in global energy demand in coming decades, is essential to successful energy and climate diplomacy.  Expanding access to modern, affordable sustainable energy can be a win-win solution for the climate, the global economy, and development.  It can curb greenhouse gas emissions, improve air quality, spur economic growth, and lower energy costs, while attracting private investment to emerging economies to improve national and regional power networks.  Strengthening energy sector governance, transparency, and accountability supports economic growth, improves democratic prospects, reduces the potential for resource-fueled conflict, and helps U.S. businesses compete and operate in resource-rich states.  An estimated $17 trillion is needed through 2035 to meet global electricity demand, according to the IEA.  Renewables are expected to account for two-thirds of new investment in generation capacity.  Transformative technologies and the integration of renewable energy will not only diversify global energy supplies and be critical to meeting the world’s growing demand for electricity, but also offer U.S. manufacturers expansive commercial opportunities.  Investment opportunities in global power markets are enormous.  We are working to ensure that American companies are well-positioned for these new markets, especially in the fast growing emerging economies.  We will continue to work for stable and transparent policy and regulatory frameworks to enable investments in national and regional markets.  These markets offer economies of scale for U.S. exports in energy efficient, alternative, and renewable energy technologies.  The main external factor that could affect our work is whether the private sector can make the needed investments in energy infrastructure.  This depends to a large extent on governments putting in place a sound energy sector regulatory framework and investment climate, but it also depends on market conditions and the capital that companies can commit.  On the diplomatic side, if countries decide not to engage with international energy organizations, it could complicate efforts to strengthen those organizations.  Strategies for Achieving the Objective  To promote energy security, access to clean energy, and mitigate climate change by accelerating the transition to a cleaner global economy, State and USAID will support increased energy efficiency, better energy sector governance, improved energy access, stronger national and regional energy markets, and more public and private financing.  To make energy systems more efficient, commercially viable, and cleaner, State and USAID will support programs that enhance utility performance, reduce technical and commercial losses, and improve air quality.  State and USAID will also support energy sector restructuring, increasing the global rate of energy efficiency, and expanding the contribution of renewable energy.  This will require improved energy sector planning, including institutional capacity building, technical assistance and integrated resource planning.  It will also require expanded collaborations and public-private partnerships with other countries in science, technology, and innovation in clean energy.  This work further includes policy and regulatory enhancement and reform efforts to strengthen the investment climate for clean energy projects.  State and USAID will also be responsive to changes in natural gas markets in order to increase global availability of this bridge fuel.  Gaining access to energy can transform lives, State and USAID will seek to increase access to reliable, affordable energy services for underserved rural and urban populations across the world.  This will require accelerating development and scaling-up appropriate business and financing models for energy access.  It also means supporting cross-sectoral development priorities, such as health, agriculture, and education.  State and USAID will also promote improved energy sector governance on the national level and internationally through the International Energy Agency (IEA), the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), and the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA).  Strengthening national and regional energy markets is another key step toward reaching this objective.  State and USAID will contribute by advancing Presidential initiatives in Asia, the Americas, and Africa to deploy clean energy and expand cross-border trade in electricity.  One initiative is Power Africa, which aims to double access to power in sub-Saharan Africa, initially focusing on six countries – Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Liberia, Nigeria, and Tanzania.  We will also encourage international financial institutions and private sector companies to invest in power sector investments in sub-Saharan Africa. This requires mobilization of public and private sector finance. State and USAID will push for transparent and streamlined processes for due diligence, tendering, and procurement to accelerate power projects to reach financial close.  State and USAID will also work for enhanced access to credit and risk mitigation.","Under Secretary for Economic Growth, Energy and the Environment (State) and Africa Bureau (USAID)","The Department of State and USAID have made significant progress in their efforts to promote energy security and the transition to a more climate friendly clean global economy in the past year.  For example, research shows that the Asia-Pacific region and emerging market countries now drive world energy demand growth.  Therefore, State and USAID are focused on reshaping institutions to reflect today’s energy realities and to ensure U.S. and global energy security, which includes working to sustainably alleviate energy poverty.   State and USAID are also working to update the Global Energy Governance Architecture through its partnership with the IEA, IRENA and EITI.  Recognizing that the level of funding needed to electrify the continent far outstrips what any government or donor can do, the Power Africa initiative supports an innovative, transaction-focused model, in partnership with governments and private sector companies. This initiative focuses on removing the barriers to successful power projects and promoting better governance of the growing power sector throughout sub-Saharan Africa. Power Africa strives to increase regional, cross-border energy trading, while also working with partner countries and regions of Africa to meet critical energy needs and achieve energy security.  At the same time it promotes sustainable development and improving lives across the continent.  By the end of FY 2014 Power Africa has assisted in bringing an additional 4,229 megawatts (MW) of energy to financial closure, including 3,667 MWs gained through privatization of Nigeria power assets.   The Department of State’s Partnership on Women’s Entrepreneurship in Renewables is addressing energy poverty in East Africa and India by working across sectors to empower more than 8,000 women clean energy entrepreneurs.  USAID’s Regional Clean Energy Initiative for Central America is a five-year, $10 million project to increase public and private investment in renewable energy. It does so by improving the enabling environment and institutional capacity, while also supporting enhanced energy efficiency in the region.  Project managers are working to encourage U.S. investor participation in the transformation of Central America’s energy markets.","Energy||International Affairs",,,
