"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Agriculture",5,USDA,"Create a USDA for the 21st Century that is High-performing, Efficient, and Adaptable",1314,3227,"Develop a Customer-centric, Inclusive, and High-performing Workforce by Investing in and Engaging Employees to Improve Service Delivery","Develop a Customer-centric, Inclusive, and High-performing Workforce by Investing in and Engaging Employees to Improve Service Delivery","USDA employees work on the frontlines every day, whether it is through battling wildfires or ensuring the safety of our Nation’s food supply, to serve the country and its taxpayers.  Since the employees are responsible for providing these services, it is imperative that the workforce is equipped with the skills and abilities to effectively and efficiently carry out the Department’s responsibilities.   To effectively develop the workforce, therefore, USDA is focusing on ensuring that the skills and competencies of its employees are appropriately assessed and improved upon.  At the same time, the Department is striving to institute an inclusive and high-performing culture that not only values the differences offered by a diverse workforce, but also leverages those differences to better serve the Department’s customers.  To further improve performance, the Department is striving to engage its workforce in the development and implementation of innovative solutions to the challenges of today.  With a high-performing, results-focused, and engaged workforce, USDA will be better positioned to serve the public.  As a result, the Department and its component agencies and offices can more effectively collaborate on challenges facing our Nation’s farmers, ranchers, and rural communities.",,"ACHIEVEMENTS:  USDA employees work on the frontlines every day to serve the country and its taxpayers, whether it is through battling wildfires or ensuring the safety of our Nation’s food supply. Because of the important work done by our employees, it is imperative that the workforce be equipped with the skills and abilities to effectively and efficiently carry out the Department’s responsibilities. Part of ensuring a high-performing workforce is an engaged workforce. USDA made some progress with regard to employee engagement seeing an increase in its Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey results in 2015. USDA ranked high in areas related to “Effective Leadership: Supervisors” and “Employee Skills-Mission Match,” and ranked third highest among large agencies in its “Support for Diversity.”",Management,,,
