"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Homeland Security",24,DHS,"Mission 5:  Strengthen National Preparedness and Resilience",3251,3248,"Goal 5.2: Mitigate Hazards and Vulnerabilities","Mitigate Hazards and Vulnerabilities","DHS is uniquely positioned not only to support communities during a disaster, but also to enable partners to take steps that will decrease risk and mitigate future hazards before a disaster strikes. While risk cannot be totally eliminated, DHS can influence and support more positive outcomes in reducing risks. National risk management emphasizes focusing on those actions and interventions that reduce the greatest amount of strategic risk to the Nation.  We will pursue the following strategies to mitigate hazards and vulnerabilities:   	Promote public and private sector awareness and understanding of community-specific risks by providing credible and actionable data and tools to support risk-informed decision making and incentivizing and facilitating investments to manage current and future risk. 	Reduce vulnerability through standards, regulation, resilient design, effective mitigation, and disaster risk reduction measures by encouraging appropriate land use and adoption of building codes, while also applying engineering and planning practices in conjunction with advanced technology tools. 	Prevent maritime incidents by establishing, and ensuring compliance with standards and regulations by licensing U.S. mariners, conducting and sharing findings of casualty investi-gations, and providing grants and support for government and nongovernment boating safety efforts.",,"The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has determined that performance toward this goal is making satisfactory progress.  Introduction DHS is uniquely positioned not only to support communities during a disaster, but also to enable partners to take steps that will decrease risk and mitigate future hazards before a disaster strikes.  While risk cannot be totally eliminated, DHS can influence and support more positive outcomes in reducing risks by:  mitigating hazards and vulnerabilities by promoting public and private sector awareness and understanding of community-specific risk; reducing vulnerability through effective mitigation and disaster risk reduction measures; and preventing maritime incidents by establishing, and ensuring compliance with, standards and regulations.  Major Achievements As of September 30, 2014, more households and communities are taking steps to mitigate property damage and adopt disaster-resistant building codes than in previous years.  Maritime mitigation efforts included screening 212,000 vessels, 30 million vessel crewmembers & passengers, and updating the 43 Area Maritime Security Plans to assess cyber vulnerabilities and marine transportation system recovery capacities.  These efforts ensured the 5-year average number of chemical discharge incidents, oil spills, and commercial mariner and recreational boating deaths and injuries all were reduced.  The implementation of SUMMIT  software by FEMA allowed responders and decision makers to access the nation’s modeling & simulation resources to analyze and prepare for incidents.  The Mitigation Framework Leadership Group developed a Federal Flood Risk Management Standard to ensure federally-funded projects are built to account for flood risk.  Other flood mitigation actions included: expansion of FEMA’s flood mapping program (Risk MAP) to cover 53 percent of the U.S. population, a new test tunnel for testing inflatable tunnel plug prototypes designed to prevent flooding in mass transit systems, development of an APEX Flood Program implementation strategy to increase community resilience, and 25 pilot programs to provide accurate assessments of communities’ flood risks.   Major Challenges & Opportunities for Improvement Though DHS made advances in mitigating hazards and vulnerabilities, significant challenges lie ahead.  The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) currently owes the U.S. Department of the Treasury $23 billion.  DHS will consider changes to address both the sustainability and affordability of the NFIP for the 2017 reauthorization of the program.       ","National Defense",452,"FY14-15 : Ensure resilience to disasters by strengthening disaster preparedness and response capabilities.","To enhance national preparedness and resilience, FEMA established the THIRA to provide a common approach for identifying and assessing risks and documenting their associated impacts.   Developing an understanding of its risks from natural, technological, and human-caused threats and hazards allows a community to make informed decisions about how to manage risk and develop needed capabilities. In addition, states and territories assess their current capability and set targets for improvement for preventing, protecting against, mitigating, responding to, and recovering from these threats and hazards. FEMA expects states and territories to mature and demonstrate improvement towards achieving their capability targets over the next two years through their THIRAs.  "
