"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"MG1 Diverse and Effective OPM workforce",3265,3266,"MG01.01 Deploy agile recruitment and outreach tactics to attract a diverse and talented workforce","Increase applicant flow from groups that underrepresented within OPM and remove barriers where they exist","Further developing and implementing our approach to recruitment and outreach. 	Identifying OPM’s unique value proposition as an employer to establish the “OPM Brand” (externally and internally) 	Developing and implementing an approach to internal recruitment with a focus on agility (e.g., connecting talent to project-based work through a government-wide talent matching tool). 	Leveraging technology and social media to create communities around specific mission areas. 	Investing in application assessment tools and processes. 	Identifying and addressing barriers to diversity.","Office of Diversity and Inclusion","In FY 2015, OPM expanded its approach to recruiting and outreach.  All hiring managers received one-on-one support for their recruiting efforts.  Additionally, OPM provided web-based training on recruitment to hiring managers.  In focusing on internal recruitment, OPM began providing employee resource groups with weekly lists of all job opportunities to distribute to their members and partners.  Job opportunities were also added to the weekly all-agency email, ""Around OPM,"" to ensure that all employees are aware of internal growth opportunities.  Finally, OPM HR participated in job fairs with diverse student populations in an effort to enhance the diversity of the applicant pool.  			   			OPM continued its efforts to identify and address any barriers to diversity through its ongoing analysis of applicant flow data.  In FY 2015, the agency's senior leadership focused on those occupations with the highest hiring volume and reviewed applicant flow data by occupation to determine whether recruitment efforts have been successful in drawing from all segments of society and to aid in developing future recruitment strategy.  			   			OPM experienced certain challenges leveraging social media for the agency’s recruiting efforts.  Factors that limited the agency’s ability to use OPM employees (and their personal social media accounts) as “ambassadors” and recruiters for positions in the agency included limitations on use of private social media accounts for this purpose, and compensation challenges related to employees performing recruiting work on behalf of the agency during non-duty hours.  ",,1029,"FY14-15 : PG5 Promote Diversity and Inclusion","OPM is responsible for the Government-wide Diversity and Inclusion effort focused on developing, driving, and monitoring strategies and initiatives designed to create a more diverse and inclusive Federal workforce.  Executive Order 13583, “Establishing a Coordinated Government-wide Initiative to Promote Diversity and Inclusion in the Federal Workforce,” challenged the Federal Government with leading by example and attaining a diverse, qualified workforce that enables employees to contribute to their full potential.  Similarly, Executive Order 13548, “Increasing Federal Employment of Individuals with Disabilities,” requires agencies to improve their efforts to employ Federal workers with disabilities and targeted disabilities through increased recruitment, hiring, and retention of these individuals. In FY 2012, OPM issued the Government-wide Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Plan to provide direction to fifty-seven participating departments and agencies under the two subject Executive Orders.  The three primary goals in the Plan included: Workforce Diversity. Recruit from a diverse, qualified group of potential applicants to secure a high-performing workforce drawn from all segments of American society; Workplace Inclusion. Cultivate a culture that encourages collaboration, flexibility, and fairness to enable individuals to contribute to their full potential and further retention; and Sustainability. Develop structures and strategies to equip leaders with the ability to manage diversity, be accountable, measure results, refine approaches on the basis of such data, and institutionalize a culture of inclusion. In support of the Diversity goal, OPM seeks to improve applicant flow reporting to enable human resources staff and hiring managers to determine whether recruitment efforts have been successful in drawing from all segments of society and to aid in developing future recruitment strategy.  Applicant flow data has historically been collected on the basis of race, national origin, and sex, and beginning in 2014, it will be collected on the basis of disability.  Historically, the data has been analyzed in an aggregate format; however, through the use of business intelligence tools, applicant flow data for individual hiring actions will be available for review at the hiring manager level after a vacancy has closed, creating incentive for increased hiring manager involvement in the recruitment process and greater opportunity for planning future recruitment efforts. To further understand how to create an inclusive work environment where employees are fully engaged and productive, OPM and the Department of Veterans Affairs conducted factor analysis on the Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey and found that twenty questions cluster into five areas or behaviors (i.e., fair, open, cooperative, supportive, and empowering) that create inclusive work environments.   Based on these five areas, OPM developed the “New IQ” (Inclusion Quotient) techniques and training to assist managers and supervisors in practicing behaviors that foster inclusion, an antecedent to employee engagement.  OPM will also continue to focus on the life cycle of the Federal employee to ensure that the Federal workforce is able to hire and develop the best talent from all segments of society, with a focus on internal Diversity and Inclusion efforts to ensure that we serve as a model agency.  Internal efforts will focus on the implementation of a data-driven, habit formation strategy that leverages first-line managers and supervisors to foster inclusion and engagement in the OPM workplace."
