"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"MG1 Diverse and Effective OPM workforce",3265,3267,"MG01.02 Create a work environment where OPM employees are fully engaged and energized to put forth their best efforts and achieve OPM’s mission","Increase the participation of employees, including groups that are under-represented within OPM, at all levels of the workforce. 	Increase in OPM’s employee engagement index score (especially with respect to the supervisor subcomponent) and New Inclusion Quotient (New IQ)..","Launching a comprehensive approach to employee engagement. 	Building leadership commitment and ownership of the engagement approach that incorporates: 	 		supervisory training1, 		improved assessment and selection of supervisors, 		training in problem-framing and problem-solving methods that empower their teams to develop excellent solutions, 		ongoing support to supervisors and 		monitoring of supervisors’ progress using an accountability tool. 	 	 	Increasing communication to employees and promoting inclusion by: 	 		identifying and using available communication vehicles, including THEO, USAJOBS, USAStaffing®, Retirement ServicesOnline, EmployeeExpress, and OPM.gov, 		Involving employees in design of programs, products and services through collaboration using the Innovation Lab and other internal resources, 		Reflecting OPM core values in communications to employees, including recognition of employees who exhibit core values, 		Involving employee labor/representative groups as vehicles to support the engagement approach. 	 	   1 Unless otherwise specified, training described in this plan will be delivered through a shared services model to achieve consistent standards of quality and optimize efficient use of limited resources.","Diversity and Inclusion ","OPM's overall engagement approach includes elements designed to invite and equip all employees to actively engage in collaborative problem solving and to celebrate individual and collective successes.  In FY 2015, all OPM subcomponents designated leads for Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey (FEVS) action planning.  For the most part, these leads were volunteer captains for component teams made up of a diverse group of employees.  The leads were provided with 2014 FEVS data specific to their organizations and trained on a corporate approach to action planning.  The group leads were brought together on a periodic basis to inform each other of the strategies they are pursuing and to provide input for corporate messaging.     All OPM supervisors who have a FEVS report specific to their organization were provided with the report, and the agency made online training available to all supervisors.  The largest and most geographically dispersed components (Federal Investigative Services, Human Resources Solutions, Retirement Services) conducted significant ""lower level"" action planning.  For example, Federal Investigative Services has teams at the local level who are selected by peer voting to represent the voice of the employee, the voice of the first line supervisor and the voice of the second line supervisor.  Each group is working on an improvement plan that is tailored to local concerns and addresses local issues related to employee development, employee recognition and leadership training.  Human Resources Solutions is pursuing a model that focuses on leaders and moving from transactional to transformational behaviors.  Retirement Services has a team pursuing a CARE model (Compassionate, Accurate, Responsive, and Empowered) that has shown positive results within Retirement Services and has informed OPM's corporate approach to customer service.     All OPM supervisors have performance standards that speak to specific expectations concerning diversity, inclusion and engagement.  Supervisors who are in challenging situations, based on FEVS and other data, have been included in a new Supervisor Support Program.     To increase collaborative problem solving, OPM continues to provide introductory training on Human Centered Design and Lean Six-Sigma to most employees and advanced training to some to build internal capacity.  In FY 2015, OPM initiated the first in a series of corporate Rapid Improvement Exercises; where employees were asked for ideas to improve OPM and selected employees were given dedicated time and training to further pursue their ideas in an intensive two day program.  The initial exercise focused on energy savings and corporate sustainability issues.     After establishing employee resource groups in previous years to promote the views of employees with similar characteristics (for example, women, LGBT, and Hispanic), in FY 2015, OPM convened an Employee Resource Group Summit to develop leadership skills of OPM group members.  OPM leaders also reviewed and approved group proposals that include group leaders and members assisting the agency in strategic outreach, recruitment and employee development initiatives.     To further a corporate culture of inclusion, OPM executives, managers, and supervisors have been trained on the New IQ method.  As of FY 2015, 87% percent, or 429 out of 495 OPM managers have received New IQ training. OPM has experienced some managerial turnover this year. As managers are trained in the New IQ and retire or leave the agency, new managers are hired whom need to be trained on the New IQ. Additional training opportunities are scheduled and OPM will target new managers for New IQ training.    OPM also began training for all employees in FY 2015.  In addition, the agency developed a web-based training regarding the inclusion of LGBT employees in the workplace.     OPM also deployed other key strategies to improve employee inclusion. They include developing:   	the 20 Small Acts of Inclusion, which are 20 actions, based on neuroscience, that increase behaviors that lead to the perception of inclusion; 	a Habit Scan, a survey where managers are asked how many inclusive habits or activities they have engaged in; 	the Simple Pledge, in which senior leaders identify two to four commitments related to diversity, inclusion, engagement, and employee development to increase accountability and transparency across organizations.  Simple Pledges are posted on the OPM Intranet for all to see, and senior leaders provide periodic updates on their implementation of the pledges; and 	Diversity and Inclusion Dialogues to promote open and honest conversations on prescient topics to improve communication, understanding, and teamwork among employees from different offices, backgrounds and groups.      Finally, to better recognize the accomplishments of OPM employees, the agency conducted a full slate of activities at multiple OPM locations during Public Service Recognition Week in May.  The culmination of the celebration was the Director's Awards for Excellence ceremony where OPM employees were recognized in individual and group award categories based on peer nominations that were reviewed by volunteer employee panels and coordinated through OPM's Labor-Management Transformation Forum.  To build upon the successful awards process, the Labor Management Transformation Forum formed a working group to review current recognition programs and processes across OPM components to develop non-monetary recognition programs on a rolling basis, rather than only during Public Service Recognition Week.     The primary challenge associated with strategy 1.02 involves supervisors and employees making time for training, recognition and regular communications activities to improve employee engagement.  Through all employee town hall meetings and special sessions with all OPM senior executives, OPM leaders have highlighted the importance of these activities as enhancing mission accomplishment rather than somehow being separate from daily work.  Component leaders have also impressed upon their supervisors the importance of regular communication, training designed to improve core skills and competencies and employee recognition. In addition, OPM’s employee development programs (featured in strategy 1.03) and employee recognition programs should be coordinated with stakeholders, including local labor unions.  The Labor Management Transformation Forum has chosen to focus on these issues and the corporate learning programs and Director's Awards process are success stories of that collaboration that can inform future partnership activities.","General Government",,,
