"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"MG2 Timely, Accurate, and Responsive Customer Service",3269,3271,"MG02.02 Promote shared accountability for the customer service strategy","Each customer-facing unit of OPM will establish customer service standards and quantifiable performance targets for timeliness, accuracy, and quality.","Assigning a cross-OPM lead for Customer Service Strategy responsible for the development of an agency-wide customer service strategic plan and ongoing performance improvement. 	Developing customer service standards (timeliness, accuracy, and quality) to hold employees and units accountable and incentivizing exemplary customer service. 	Reporting by program goal owners on their progress on customer service goals set in the strategic plan on a routine basis. 	Engaging all our customers as partners in meeting agency goals: 	 		Align customers through the CHCO Council and Human Resources Line of Business (HRLOB); 		Empower employees, retirees, and applicants through self-service tools and better information about our services; 		Increase outreach to customers through customer councils, surveys, participatory design sessions in the LAB @ OPM and test beds; 		Set customer service expectations across the agency.",,"In June 2015, OPM released the first Customer Experience Training, focusing on Accuracy, Responsiveness, and Timeliness (ART). As of the end of FY 2015, 22 percent of OPM had taken the training. After the Customer Service Week, the first week of October, the participation rate increased to 25.3 percent. The training helps create a shared sense of accountability by highlighting the recommended best practices and skill development to create a positive customer experience.  It also reinforces the idea that an excellent customer experience is the responsibility of every employee, regardless of whether the employee is on the front-line dealing with external customers. The Customer Service training will be updated annually and delivered online to all OPM employees.     OPM also created an internal customer service community of practice to promote shared accountability and jointly implement the Customer Experience Strategic Plan. This group initiated a performance improvement strategy, using ART and overall satisfaction data to identify areas of improvement and make adjustments to challenge areas to enhance customer service. OPM will phase in the performance improvement strategy because some offices already have baseline scores, while others do not have surveys in place. Program offices that do not have any customer service measures in place are working on developing surveys and measures in order to establish baselines for ART and overall satisfaction. In the summer of 2015, OPM began Phase I, which is composed of offices with overall satisfaction scores and at least one component of ART.     OPM is also part of the Customer Service Cross-Agency Priority Goal Community of Practice; one of 15 Cross-Agency Priority Goals identified by OMB in support the President’s Management Agenda. This group provides a forum for agencies to share best practices, discuss challenges, and showcase new initiatives.     OPM, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, has highlighted this strategy as a focus area for improvement.","General Government",,,
