"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"MG2 Timely, Accurate, and Responsive Customer Service",3269,3273,"MG02.04 Improve customers understanding of the policies and procedures that apply throughout the employee lifecycle","All OPM employees (and contractors) in customer-facing units will receive training (delivered through a shared services model) in customer service based on objectives defined in the customer service strategic plan.","Communicating key topics (inclusion, engagement, telework) on multiple platforms. 	Keeping customers abreast of legal changes. 	Ensuring that all HR information systems across the Federal government are aligned with OPM policy and guidance.",,"To support Strategy 2.04, OPM provided a complement of webinar trainings that it recorded and made available for the HR Community on OPM’s YouTube Channel, the HRU website, and the OPM website. The webcasts included titles such as Processing Phased Retirement, TSP Transfers and Rollovers: How, When, and Why (or Why Not!), and Overview of Federal Employees Insurance Benefits. The webinars are available at http://www.opm.gov/retirement-services/benefits-officerscenter. Participation in the webcasts has been high. Webinars delivered in FY 2015 received more than 20,000 views.  As they are hosted online, they continue to provide training to benefits officers on key topics related to retirement and insurance. OPM also provided an in-person training class to the Department of Energy on Federal Erroneous Retirement Coverage Corrections.     The three virtual seminars referenced in 2.03 also support Strategy 2.04. The Virtual Benefits Officers seminars covered benefits initiatives, shared best practices, and discussed crosscutting issues in retirement, insurance, and Thrift Savings Plan administration. The event also featured information on OPM’s Retirement Audit initiative and how to provide a healthy retirement case to OPM. The Virtual HR Training Conference covered a wide variety of Federal HR and human capital issues, strategies and promising practices including recruitment, engagement, diversity and inclusion, and many more topics. This conference offered tracks for “Back-to-Basics,” “Hiring Process,” “Strategic HC Management”, “HR Innovations,”  and “Hiring Managers.”     OPM also participated in a Customer Experience Summit with OMB, Social Security Administration, and other Federal organizations to share best practices on Raising the Management Bar and The Transformative Power of Technology.     A challenge to the implementation of this strategy will be the ability to communicate policy and procedure information in language understandable by HR specialists, Federal employees and retirees, the public, and OPM’s other customers.","General Government",,,
