"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"MG4 Efficient and Effective Information Systems",3279,3280,"MG04.01 Commit to an enterprise-wide information systems strategy based on the principle that business drives strategy","Increase in savings resulting from the elimination of duplicative, redundant, or unaligned IT expenditures","Publishing OPM’s IT Strategic Plan. 	Delivering a framework for a set of standards that supports the entirety of the HR life cycle as documented in the Human Resources Line of Business (HRLOB) Business Reference Model (BRM) that recognizes and synergizes the technology and tools within OPM, Shared Service Centers, and industry. 	Establishing a culture of openness and trust throughout the HR IT community and among key federal stakeholder communities. 	Establishing a practice of transparent IT cost accounting throughout OPM.","Office of the Chief Information Officer","OPM published the HR Line of Business Strategic Framework, which builds upon the Chief Human Capital Officer Council’s HRIT Future State Vision to create a common user experience across the Federal employee lifecycle using interoperable HR systems and data. The Strategic Framework enables the development of an integrated, Government-wide HRIT environment over the next 10 years.  The framework defines a role for the HR Line of Business in the policy development process in response to improved performance outcomes. The framework also increases engagement between the Shared Service Centers and policy owners to improve the centers’ ability to implement policies in a timely manner. The framework will also create a common experience for the Federal workforce.     OPM also kicked off an update to the Business Reference Model by holding sessions with the goal of creating a single Federal framework for defining the HR lifecycle. The updated Business Reference Model will provide an operational model to standardize HR processes, define the Category Management initiative’s human capital category structure, and facilitate financial transparency through improved HR information technology spend categorization. Category management is a new, more strategic approach that will enable the Federal Government to “buy smarter” and more like a single enterprise.     OPM continued to take part in working group sessions with cross-agency subject matter experts to compile, reconcile, and validate a final set of 103 Talent Development business requirements. The working group is continuing to develop future trends, which will be added to the set of business requirements.  OPM published the Talent Development business requirements report in June 2015.     OPM facilitated collaborative working groups that resulted in a memo for OMB with actionable recommendations to improve the shared services environment in the areas of sustainable funding, talent acquisition, governance, and process standardization and policy oversight.     OPM experienced some challenges developing Service Level Agreements due to a lack of expertise. To mitigate the skills gap, OPM acquired a subscription service in April 2015 that will provide access to information about industry best practices and standards that can be used as benchmarks by OPM.  OPM, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, has determined that performance toward this strategy is making noteworthy progress.","General Government",,,
