"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"MG4 Efficient and Effective Information Systems",3279,3282,"MG04.03 Implement enterprise initiatives that leverage capabilities and tools throughout OPM","Consolidating platforms to enhance interoperability and reduce duplication. 	Implementing collaboration tools that will provide easy access to all data, information, and systems that individuals are authorized to access, while using the strong controls required for enhanced information security. 	Implementing a shared case management solution that provides case tracking and reporting, and workflows. 	Implementing a single, virtual data warehouse and sharing capability that better meets business needs while reducing redundancies. 	Operating an efficient intranet and providing web services for OPM employees. 	Operating an effective secure network, data center, and desktop environment. 	Strengthening financial controls and reporting to enable spending transparency across funding types and programs.",,"Office of the Chief Information Officer","The IT Infrastructure Improvement Project is proceeding according to plan.  OPM contracted the services of two commercial sites to provide hosting of the new OPM Data Center platform, known as Infrastructure as a Service.    These sites meet all current best practice standards.  Two identical platforms are being built to allow for a highly available and secure system.  As of June 1, 2015, OPM put in place the essential elements of management/compute technologies, storage technologies, and networking technologies for Infrastructure as a Service.  Next steps call for the integration of security technologies.  This secure and resilient platform will provide the basis for all OPM systems. In September 2015, Infrastructure as a Service achieved Initial Operations Capacity, a major milestone.  The organizational structure is in place to accelerate the planning for analysis, improvement, and migration of OPM applications from the legacy environment to Infrastructure as a Service.  Towards this end, an Assessment Arena has been constructed in the legacy environment to mirror the Infrastructure as a Service platform.  In this arena, application teams will be able to assess their applications in the new platform and to test their updates.  In the legacy environment, OPM has reduced non-virtualized systems by approximately 25 percent through increased virtualization efforts and the decommissioning of systems no longer needed by the agency.  OPM has also bolstered the desktop environment, resulting in a faster, more resilient platform for OPM employees through the implementation of new management tools, upgraded hardware, and more sophisticated security controls. OPM completed the acquisition of the case management platform and implementation services for the core product.  Further, OPM migrated www.opm.gov and all of its subordinate sites supporting the platform consolidation initiative by moving from a hosted environment to an OPM data center.  This move resulted in savings while also providing greater security for OPM’s websites and associated data.  OPM acquired new enterprise collaboration and productivity tools, Microsoft SharePoint and Office 365, and dedicated resources to support a 2-year implementation.  The primary challenge that OPM experienced with the implementation of the SharePoint rollout was gaining access to the skill sets required for implementation.  To mitigate this, OPM brought in a temporary resource to support the implementation.  A second challenge was delays in the acquisition of the case management platform.  The platform is required prior to implementing the case management systems for Retirement Services and Federal Investigative Services.  The delays resulted from changes in project leads as well as extensive market research that OPM conducted,  including “industry days” to give potential responders an overview of the project.  In the fourth quarter of FY 2015, OPM completed the acquisition for the core product of the Enterprise Case Management System and the technical specifications.","General Government",43552,"FY16-17 : Cybersecurity Monitoring","OPM stores more Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and other sensitive records than almost any other Federal agency.  This is a tremendous trust placed in the agency by the millions of current and former Federal employees, and one that OPM must continually earn through constant vigilance. The prior breaches of OPM data make clear that cybersecurity must remain a priority for all agencies, but especially OPM.  As President Obama has said, “Both state and non-state actors are sending everything they’ve got at trying to breach these systems…And this problem is not going to go away.  It is going to accelerate.  And that means that we have to be as nimble, as aggressive, and as well-resourced as those who are trying to break into these systems.”  In a world of evolving threats, there is no such thing as “total cybersecurity.”  But the actions outlined by OPM, and continued collaboration with Federal partners, Congress, and outside experts, will ensure that OPM has the tools it needs to safeguard its systems and protect our nation’s citizens and the men and women that serve the Federal Government. This goal aligns with Administration cybersecurity priorities. The goal was established in coordination with OMB policies and guidance, to include the Cybersecurity Strategy and Implementation Plan (CSIP), the Fiscal Year 2015-2016 Guidance on Federal Information Security and Privacy Management Requirements, and the Cybersecurity CAP goal."
