"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"MG4 Efficient and Effective Information Systems",3279,3283,"MG04.04 Implement business initiatives that provide capabilities spanning the HR life cycle, allowing OPM and other federal agencies to achieve their missions",,"Supporting integrity of background investigations through innovative technology. 	Supporting modern IT systems for retirement processing. 	Supporting IT service delivery for customer agencies. 	Supporting health and insurance initiatives. 	Supporting current and planned business initiatives for which IT is an enabler.","Office of the Chief Information Officer","USAJOBS developed an initial set of agency dashboards and executive monthly summary statistics.  OPM also implemented a data warehouse and data analytics capability to visualize USAJOBS data.  In addition, the agency implemented the Federal Workforce Map for USAJOBS, allowing geographical searches. Further, OPM’s Retirement Systems implemented a Phased Retirement for Federal Annuitant Case Expert System and Annuity Roll systems, and OPM’s Financial Services team completed an upgrade of the Federal Employees Retirement System Further Revised Annuity Employees, as required by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013.  OPM also completed the implementation of an update to the financial and Retirement Services systems that allows annuitants to pay their life insurance premiums when their annuity is too small to cover them.     Planning for the Infrastructure as a Service (also known as Shell) migration requires new funding and developer resources, and entails significant risk to functionality based upon unknowns about the security tools.  The timing of the migration may affect delivery of the next generation USAJOBS, requiring a delay until FY 2017 for the migration.","General Government",,,
