"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"SG6 Engaged Federal Workforce",3288,3289,"SG06.01 Design and deliver leadership training to increase employee engagement","Increase in the proportion of training and certification managed through a shared services platform that has been certified by OPM.","Promoting, developing and providing supervisor and manager training and professional development as a critical element of organizational performance. 	Evaluating Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) framework to ensure the underlying competencies drive performance and foster employee engagement for 21st century work. 	Partnering with agencies to develop common solutions to meet the various components in the Supervisory Training Framework released December 2012, and Managerial Training Framework. 	Holding agencies accountable for ensuring supervisors and managers participate in training designed to improve employee engagement and to meet training requirements outlined in 5 CFR412.","HR Strategy & Evaluation Solutions","In FY 2015, OPM began the work to mature the Manager and Executive LEAD Program from a “Certificate of Completion Program” to a “Certificate of Mastery Program,” and will begin monitoring and measuring the effectiveness of this initiative once it is completed and the program begins to be delivered in FY 2016.  			   			OPM’s Human Resources Solutions’ professional leadership development courses and programs attracted 19,047 Government employees in FY 2015.  The Leadership for a Democratic Society Program was awarded the Outstanding Program Award at the 2015 Association of Leadership Educator’s International Conference in Washington, DC.  OPM developed and offered its second blended learning program for the Leadership for a Democratic Society program, combining technology-based and classroom-based learning.  The FY 2015 program was revised based on input from a FY 2014 pilot class, resulting in significant improvements to the online portion of the program, and improved participation and completion. In FY 2016 and beyond, this program will be widely available for the Federal workforce via this blended method of delivery.  Also in FY 2015, OPM’s Federal Executive Institute offered its first course to graduates of the Leadership for a Democratic Society program. That course, Leading Difficult Change: A Case Study of the Civil Rights Movement, attracted 45 participants, and more, similarly-designed courses will be offered in FY 2016.  			   			OPM conducted extensive analysis that included cross walking curricula to engagement behaviors in an effort to identify gaps associated with employee engagement.  OPM is using this analysis to target and strengthen offerings in specific competencies that will improve employee engagement throughout the Federal Government.  			   			To further international partnerships, in September 2015, OPM Federal Executive Institute staff participated in Korea’s Central Official’s Training Institute’s International conference on Human Resource Development in an Era of Globalization.  OPM also worked with the Dutch Embassy to support their senior government leaders’ leadership development seminar in Washington, DC by providing staff support, a talk by Harvard professor Lenny Marcus, and a table-top simulation focused on cybersecurity.  			   			The Senior Executive Service (SES) Program welcomed more than 400 new career SES and SES-equivalents from more than 30 Federal agencies during the Government-wide SES Orientation Briefings hosted by the Federal Executive Institute and the White House Presidential Personnel Office.","General Government",,,
