"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"SG6 Engaged Federal Workforce",3288,3291,"SG06.03 Provide a comprehensive suite of engagement services and models for agencies and employees","Increase in CHCO satisfaction with availability and effectiveness of OPM’s tools, products, and services on employee engagement.","Designing, providing, and promoting employee engagement tools, products, and services accessible to agencies and employees. 	Partnering with agencies to promote and share promising practices and metrics on employee engagement.","Employee Services","OPM revised the format and functionality of the Engagement Community of Practice web page on www.UnlockTalent.gov to highlight featured and new material, and to allow the agency to add new material monthly. OPM developed and implemented a schedule for monthly updates.  In FY 2016, OPM will continue to revise and update the Community of Practice to maximize its effectiveness and ensure a positive user experience for its more than 9,300 users.     OPM continued to provide action planning training and support services to agencies, providing training and services to OPM HR, the Food and Drug Administration Office of Regulatory Affairs Office of Resource Management, and the Center for Disease Control and Prevention Department of STD Prevention in FY 2015.  These projects include hands-on training on how to develop action plans and the steps required to implement those plans.     In May 2015, OPM conducted its first Virtual HR Training Conference attended by more than 2,400 entry-level through management employees across 75 Federal agencies.  Of the more than 700 participants who completed the post-course evaluation, 67 percent believed the program would improve their job performance, 81 percent would recommend the program to their colleagues; and 90 percent were committed to applying what they learned to their work.     OPM convened another Human Center Design session with President’s Management Agenda agencies.  These sessions continue to surface important aspects of engagement that OPM considers, develops and proposes for consideration as best practices for participating agencies.     The HRStat concept, in which Federal agencies facilitate data-driven quarterly reviews, began to show promise and, with the completion of the HRStat project plan, OPM is now ready to begin integrating it into its other efforts.     Further, OPM’s Human Resources Solutions provided succession planning support to agencies that included a leadership competency modeling and gap analysis review, as well as training, for the purpose of identifying and closing gaps via “on-point” developmental programs, and individual succession risk profiling for key leaders to facilitate building readiness and bench strength.  OPM provided consulting services to 11 agencies, including the Federal Emergency Management Agency Region 9, Food and Drug Administration Office of Regulatory Affairs, Navy International Program Office, Centers for Disease Control’s Human Capital and Resources Management Office and the National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration National Satellite and Information Service, Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration, U.S. Geological Survey, Food and Drug Administration Office of Resource Management, and National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Glenn Research Center.  In July 2015, OPM also developed and deployed a new three-day open enrollment course on succession planning attended by human capital management practitioners from multiple agencies.     OPM, in consultation with OMB, has deter-mined that performance toward this strategy is making noteworthy progress.","General Government",,,
