"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"SG8 Enhanced Federal Workforce Integrity ",3297,3302,"SG08.01 Enhance policy, procedures and processes used to ensure people are fit to serve","90% of Top Secret investigations completed in average of 80 days or fewer and Secret investigations completed in average of 40 days or fewer.  Percent of milestones met in FBI/OPM implementation plan to provide emerging Criminal History Information to employing government agencies implementation plan","Defining executive branch wide quality standards for background investigations and revising tools and measures to universally assess quality in collaboration with Office of the Director of National Intelligence and the Suitability and Security Clearance Performance Accountability Council,. 	Automating front-end processes to reduce paper investigation requests in support of Background Investigations timeliness standards. 	Implementing revised Federal Investigative standards. 	Establishing and enforcing standards for information systems used for management of adjudication decisions and data. 	Developing tools to deliver appropriate emerging information to decision makers. 	Developing automated tools to support efficiency and consistency in background investigation processes.","Federal Investigative Services","In September 2014, OPM announced it would not exercise options to renew contracts with the contractor that performed the majority of its background investigations.  The agency has continued its operations by assigning cases to its Federal staff and its two remaining investigative contractors.  In addition, OPM signed an agreement with another contractor to take on a support services contract, which was effective October 1, 2014.  Because of the short-term reduction in investigative resources, the time to complete initial national security investigations increased throughout FY 2015.  To counter the temporary reduction in capacity, OPM’s Federal Investigative Services and its two fieldwork contractors increased their field staff, backfilled vacant Federal positions, and maximized OPM’s training capabilities Actions that OPM has taken to expand investigative capacity are within budget constraints, while maintaining the high-quality of OPM’s investigations.  Until the additional vetted and trained resources are in place, OPM expects that investigation timeliness will continue to degrade and inventory will continue to increase through FY 2016.  OPM will continue to re-evaluate its position to determine if additional measures are needed to meet timeliness goals while continuing to deliver high quality investigations.     OPM officials met with OMB and interagency partners to address how to respond to seven legislative proposals related to suitability and security clearance reform introduced in the 113th Congress.  Although this effort was an outgrowth of the Presidentially-directed 120-day review of suitability, fitness, credentialing, and national security investigative and adjudicative procedures for Federal employees, members of the Armed Forces, and employees of Government contractors, it was also important to OPM in other ways, for example by potentially changing the contours of its options with respect to contracting.     Also in FY 2015, in accordance with the Government-wide phased implementation plan, OPM implemented the Tiers 1 and 2 investigation products that improve the quality of vetting by providing more information to decision-makers for suitability and credentialing determinations.  The new products are based on the 2012 Federal Investigative Standards that OPM and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) jointly issued in December 2012.  Further, OPM began implementing the new Executive Branch-wide Quality Assessment Standards for investigations signed by OPM and the DNI on January 22, 2015.     Meeting Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 and DNI timeliness goals while continuing to deliver high quality investigations will continue to be OPM’s Federal Investigative Services’ main challenge into FY 2016.  OPM is addressing this challenge by developing and employing detailed key measures of operational performance and tracking progress toward improving timeliness.  In addition, to increase its capacity to execute investigations, OPM has developed plans to hire additional Federal field agents.  Further, OPM is developing a new enterprise case management system which will allow detailed end-to-end management of investigations, allowing for more item-level scheduling which will result in efficient and cost effective operations.     OPM, in consultation with OMB, has highlighted this strategy as a focus area for improvement.","General Government",410,"FY14-15 : PG2 Improve the Oversight and Quality of Background Investigation Processing","Beginning in FY 2013, the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) further challenged the background investigations process by revising the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act timeliness metrics to establish a separate standard for Top Secret investigations.   As a result, the DNI shifted greater management focus on the manpower intensive workload, necessitating the creation of revised workload management tools and rules to measure and manage workload by case type. While OPM has made significant progress on timeliness since 2004, the agency has maintained its primary focus on delivering top quality products to agencies. OPM will work with its executive branch reform partners to develop and implement Executive Branch quality standards, with a measurement tool designed for universal application during both the investigative and adjudicative processes. OPM will focus on implementing these additional initiatives while maintaining timeliness objectives.  OPM will satisfy all national security standards, deliver quality products, and achieve Congressional and DNI mandated timeliness goals. OPM is sensitive to the fiscal environment and the need for customer agencies (i.e., the employing or sponsoring agencies) to have more insight into the costs of background investigations. To this end, OPM will continue conducting business efficiency studies and maturing its cost allocation model to provide more detailed cost data and to optimize the value of OPM’s investigative products to agency adjudicators, which in turn translates into better value to taxpayers."
