"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"SG8 Enhanced Federal Workforce Integrity ",3297,3304,"SG08.03 Provide guidance, tools and training to help agencies attain human capital management goals and meet OPM requirements","80% or greater of participants assess the quality of training provided by Agency Compliance and Evaluation staff at no less than 4 out of 5 points on a scale of 1-5.  Increase in the percentage of HR specialists and agency benefit officers trained and certified by HR University.  Increase in the percentage of applicable HR information systems across the Federal government are certified to align with OPM policy and guidance for equitable treatment.","Training and certifying gency staff to carry out competitive hiring operations delegated by OPM. 	Training agency staff to conduct self-assessments of agency human capital management programs. 	Creating a certification process for agency self-assessment evaluators. 	Communicating new and existing policy and standards to agencies. 	Educating agencies about the merit system principles and prohibited personnel practices. 	Promoting and delivering low-cost, effective learning solutions for the federal community through expanded distance- and blended-learning solutions, skills immersion mini-workshops, and open enrollment course offerings through the new HR Training On Demand program. 	Training HR professionals across the Federal government through HR University (HRU) and the HR Training on Demand program and assisting HR specialists with additional policy and guidance. 	Promote training programs across all OPM platforms, including USA Learning, HR Learning Connection, OPM Learning Center, HR University, THEO, USAJOBS, and OPM.gov    ","Merit System Accountability and Compliance","In FY 2015, OPM conducted 46 Delegated Examining certification training classes for 817 agency employees and eight evaluator training classes for 150 agency employees. Of the 967 employees who completed the training, 940 submitted training evaluations, and 919 (97.8 percent) rated the training at level four of five out of five.  Further, OPM has developed draft procedures to cover the possible certification of agency self-assessment evaluators.  Required competencies have been identified, and procedures governing the nomination process, including pre-requisites and supporting evidence, are being developed.     Between September 19, 2014  and the end of FY 2015, OPM’s HR Strategy and Evaluation Solutions  has trained 480 individuals through the HR Training on Demand program on topics including classification, basic staffing, delegated examining, performance management, succession planning, assessment questionnaire development, and job analysis.      USA Staffing® served 71 Federal agency customers, supported the posting of 273,170 job announcements to the system, processed 13,595,622 applications, and issued 415,918 certificates resulting in 297,647 selections Government-wide.     In support of both the IT Infrastructure and Recruitment, Engagement, Diversity, and Inclusion (REDI) initiatives, the USA Staffing® Upgrade deployed in April 2015.  Seventy-five percent of all USA Staffing® customers are retrieving applicant flow data, which enables agencies to identify barriers in the hiring process and further improve recruitment and hiring practices.     In FY 2015, USA Hire received 179,830 applicants for testing, and of those, 103,035 took some portion of the assessments, with 96,420 completing all required tests.     The Cyber Corps®: Scholarship for Service Program, which is administered by HRS and co-sponsored by the National Science Foundation and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, has awarded 229 scholarships in FY 2015 to individuals talented in the area of Government critical information infrastructure.     As of end of FY 2015, OPM had met 4,685 of 7,141, or 65.6 percent, of staffing learning requirements by HR University courses and resources, and was on track to meet 100 percent by the end of FY 2016.     Implementation of a certification process for agency evaluators poses challenges in terms of uploading, maintaining and updating nominations and evidence documents in such a way that allows both OPM and agencies shared access.  OPM is determining whether use of a database platform is a viable option.     Finding training space for HR Training on Demand, DE and Evaluator classes is an ongoing challenge.  As the program continues to expand, other challenges include resources and turnover among key trainers.     OPM, in consultation with OMB, has determined that performance toward this strategy is making noteworthy progress.","General Government",43532,"FY16-17 : Human Resource Workforce Capability","The Federal human resources profession performs the vital role of supporting the recruitment, hiring and management of the Federal civilian workforce. The President’s Management Agenda and OPM Strategic Plan both rely critically on the ability of human resources professionals to keep abreast of innovations in talent management, evolving human resources policies, and new skills required for successful execution of Federal talent strategies.  Currently, investment in development for Federal HR professionals varies across agencies in approach, content, and quality.  To assure a leveling-up of HR professional development and support Government-wide HR reforms, OPM is partnering with the Chief Human Capital Officers Council to build a comprehensive curriculum of HR training and education to be delivered through the HR University (HRU).  The CHCO Council is using a Community Framework to develop an agreed approach to identifying required skills, assessing the current workforce competencies to identify gaps, and targeting the development of coursework toward high priority skills.   The HRU Curriculum will address all HR professional roles and technical specialty areas, and will consist of courses offered by OPM’s HR Solutions, as well as courses available from other Federal agencies.  The Community Framework also includes a credentialing strategy to be developed by the CHCO Council based on benchmarking of industry best practices.  A certification program will be built into the HRU Curriculum to support any future credentialing program. The highest risk to successful execution of this goal is agencies’ willingness to pay for courses offered by HR University.  Recovering the investment costs for the curriculum and HRU operations is critical to OPM’s Human Resources Solutions’ (HRS) sustainable delivery of HRU curricula and developmental resources.  To mitigate this risk, HRS is collaborating closely with the CHCO Council HR Skills Gaps Executive Steering Committee to build the curriculum.  Through a co-production method, HRS will ensure that courses being offered directly meet agencies’ perceived needs for HR skills development."
