"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Environmental Protection Agency",20,EPA,"Ensuring the Safety of Chemicals and Preventing Pollution",3317,3319,"Promote Pollution Prevention","Conserve and protect natural resources by promoting pollution prevention and the adoption of other sustainability practices by companies, communities, governmental organizations, and individuals.","The 1990 Pollution Prevention Act established national policy for the use of P2 as the first choice in addressing pollution at the source.  Time and experience have added to our understanding and appreciation of the value of preventing pollution before it occurs.  P2 is central to all of EPA’s sustainability strategies, and EPA will continue to incorporate P2 principles into its policies, regulations, and actions.[1]     EPA strives to prevent pollution by fostering the development of P2 solutions and promoting increased use of those solutions.  The results of these strategies include significant reductions in the use of hazardous materials, energy, and water and in the generation of greenhouse gases, as well as significant increases in the availability and use of safer chemicals and safer chemical products.  EPA’s successful implementation of these strategies also enables businesses, governments, and other institutions to reduce their costs.  These strategies are key elements of EPA’s approach to achieving a sustainable future.  Specific activities conducted to implement these strategies include:      	Fostering the development of P2 innovations:    	Promoting green chemistry and green engineering, and developing educational curricula; 	Establishing technical criteria for chemical alternatives assessments; 	Participating in the development of voluntary consensus standards and other safer chemical products criteria, including participating in international cooperative efforts; 	Establishing greener purchasing and management practices (i.e., environmentally preferable purchasing); and, 	Incorporating P2 solutions in regulatory options or requirements.    	Promoting increased use of P2 innovations:    	Providing and promoting technical assistance, such as establishing Economy, Energy, and Environment (E3) Partnerships (in conjunction with the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Energy, and Labor, and the Small Business Administration) or providing technical assistance on manufacturing, green sports, or other business sectors; 	Demonstrating the benefits of P2 solutions; 	Labeling safer products by working with key stakeholders through the Design for the Environment (DfE) program; 	Leveraging the power of federal purchasing; and, 	Coordinating with other P2 offices across the Agency with shared audiences or sustainability approaches, including ENERGY STAR, WaterSense, the sustainable materials management program, and other complementary programs between Goal 3 and Goal 4.      External Factors and Emerging Issues  The Agency’s multi-media P2 efforts are affected by changes in economic conditions.  Much of EPA’s P2 work is voluntary, so success depends in part on participation levels by industry, government agencies, and members of the public.     Endnotes:   	EPA pollution prevention program information is available at http://www.epa.gov/p2/.","Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention","With respect to fostering the development of new P2 solutions, significant accomplishments in FY 2014 included:      	Recognizing the FY 2014 Presidential Green Chemistry Award winners, including an award-winning display and lighting technology that could significantly reduce cadmium and toxic solvents and save the equivalent electricity consumption of 50,000 average American homes a year (over 600 million kilowatt-hours). 	Continuing to provide agency technical input for developing and promoting greener electronics and voluntary consensus standards for imaging equipment, televisions, computers, and servers, which will generate significant P2 results in future years as these products are purchased.      With respect to promoting increased use of P2 solutions, significant accomplishments in FY 2014 included:      	Convening the Green Chemistry Roundtable with Presidential Green Chemistry Award winners and other stakeholders, intended to increase the market penetration of green chemistry solutions.      Engaging with stakeholders and the public on possible label options for a redesigned Design for the Environment (DfE) logo intended to increase consumer awareness of the benefits of labeled products as well as consumer purchasing of such products. Expanding to a total of 27 states the Economy, Energy, and Environment (E3) program, through which EPA collaborates with five other federal agencies, states, and local communities to connect respective programs to deliver responsive, coordinated solutions in a manufacturing environment. The E3 program focuses on strengthening small to medium-sized American manufacturers, which represent the largest proportion of the manufacturing sector, and helps boost local economies to achieve sustainability goals. Nearly 200 additional E3 assessments were conducted in FY 2014.  The P2 program produced significant environmental benefits in FY 2013, indicating that the program will be able to achieve the strategic targets for reducing water use, GHG emissions, and hazardous materials and for increasing cost savings through pollution prevention. Due to regular lags in the data needed determine performance results, the P2 program’s most currently available accomplishments associated with GPRA outcome measures are those achieved in FY 2013.","Natural Resources and Environment",35422,"FY16-17 : Assess and reduce risks posed by chemicals and promote the use of safer chemicals in commerce.","Improving chemical safety is one of the most critical aspects of EPA’s work to protect human health and the environment and advance a sustainable future. Three statutes provide EPA the authority to regulate chemicals: The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) and the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (FFDCA) govern the regulation of pesticides and the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) governs regulation of other commercial chemicals. This APG addresses a key component of EPA’s chemical strategy – using all available information to assess whether chemicals entering or already being used in commerce pose risks to human health and the environment.  EPA’s work on this critical issue is organized into three components: • Assessing pesticides safety and effectiveness in determining whether to register and re-evaluate them for commercial use. Pesticides distributed and sold in the United States must generally be registered by EPA, based on scientific data showing that they will not cause unreasonable risks to human health, workers, or the environment when used as directed on product labeling.  The registration and registration review programs ensure that chemicals coming to and now available on the market meet current safety standards and, as the ability to assess risk evolves and as policies and practices change, all registered pesticides continue to meet the statutory standard of no unreasonable adverse effects, that is, continue to be safe when used according to the label.  Although changes in science, public policy, and pesticide use practices will occur over time, such changes could impact EPA’s ability to make determinations in a timely manner.  Through the registration review program, the Agency periodically reevaluates (at least every fifteen years) pesticides to make sure that as change occurs, products in the marketplace can still be used safely.  The Office of Pesticide Programs is continuously challenged to improve its processes, science, and information management while maintaining a collaborative and open process for decision-making to ensure safety to human health and the environment.  Please refer to section 4 for a more detailed discussion of the challenges presented by implementing the Endangered Species Act (ESA), Endocrine Disruptor Screening Program (EDSP) and White House Pollinator Health Strategy concerns.  While challenging, implementing solutions to these issues will improve the Agency’s processes and allow for an open public venue for determining that products coming to market as well as those currently in the marketplace can be used safely. • Assessing the safety of commercial chemicals, using the authorities of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). o TSCA Work Plan Assessments: As part of EPA’s chemical safety program, EPA has identified a work plan of chemicals for assessment. Originally released in March 2012, and updated in October 2014, EPA’s TSCA Work Plan helps focus and direct the activities of its Existing Chemicals Program. The Agency committed to assess the chemicals in every-day, wide spread use to which our people, our communities and our environment may be exposed, starting with those on the Work Plan. The findings of these assessments guide decisions on whether risk reduction actions are needed to address risks to human health or the environment from exposure to particular chemical uses or groups of chemicals.  More information about the TSCA Work Plan is available at: http://www.epa.gov/oppt/existingchemicals/pubs/workplans.html. o TSCA Section 5 (New Chemicals) Notice Assessments: In FY 2016 and FY 2017, the EPA will continue to fulfill its mandate under TSCA Section 5 to manage the potential risk to human health and the environment from chemicals to be introduced into the marketplace. Functioning as a “gatekeeper,” the EPA can identify conditions, up to and including a ban on production, to be placed on the use of a new chemical before it is entered into commerce. Anyone who plans to manufacture (including import) a new chemical substance for a non-exempt commercial purpose is required by section 5 of TSCA to provide EPA with notice before initiating the activity. This premanufacture notice, or PMN, can include information such as specific chemical identity, use, anticipated production volume, exposure and release information and existing available test data. Each year, the EPA receives approximately 1,000 new chemical notices under section 5, and must review and assess each PMN within 90 days of receipt. More information about the TSCA New Chemicals Program is available at: http://www.epa.gov/oppt/newchems/index.htm. • Assessing whether chemicals have the potential to disrupt endocrine systems.  Congress directed the agency to develop the Endocrine Disruptors Screening Program (EDSP) in accordance with the Food Quality Protection Act of 1996. The agency is employing high-throughput and computational methods to evaluate endocrine activity to screen over 10,000 chemicals for potential endocrine activity using validated test methods. The program involves requiring registrants to generate screening data for chemicals suspected of having effects on the endocrine system.  In setting up the EDSP, it took several years to determine the appropriate tests, establish protocols, issue tests orders requiring these data, develop the data and review the data.  To date, about 50 pesticides have been tested and reviewed.  When a chemical is determined to be an endocrine disruptor, it will be incorporated into risk assessments and considered in the risk management decision for the chemical."
