"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Environmental Protection Agency",20,EPA,"Addressing Climate Change and Improving Air Quality",3328,3330,"Improve Air Quality","Achieve and maintain health- and welfare-based air pollution standards and reduce risk from toxic air pollutants and indoor air contaminants.","Taking into account the most current health effects research findings[1], EPA has completed new, more health-protective national ambient air quality standards for particulate matter (December 2012), lead (October 2008), sulfur dioxide (June 2010), nitrogen dioxide (January 2010), and carbon monoxide (August 2011), and is currently reviewing the standard for ozone.  Over the next 4 years, we will work with states and tribes to develop and implement plans to achieve and maintain these standards.  Our efforts provide the tools and information necessary for EPA, states, and tribes to implement air quality standards and controls.     EPA will work with states and tribes to decrease the emissions that contribute to interstate transport of air pollution.  These efforts will help many areas of the country attain the standards and achieve significant improvements in human health.  Working with states and tribes, EPA will continue implementing cost-effective multi-state regional programs designed to control the significant contributions of power plant and other stationary source emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) to air quality problems (i.e., nonattainment and interference with maintenance of ozone and PM2.5 NAAQS) in downwind areas.  Operating programs in 2014 will include the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) or a replacement program for control of transported ozone and PM2.5 pollution[2], in addition to the national acid rain SO2 and NOx emission reduction programs.     As we implement national air quality standards, we will seek ways to increase efficiency and maximize results.  These efforts include:  working with states to improve the state implementation plan approval process, including the use of full-cycle analysis (i.e., identifying specific actions along a time line needed to facilitate the timely issuance of implementation rules and guidelines); modernizing our training program for state, local, and tribal agencies through an e-learning system; and implementation of electronic emission reporting as part of the Agency’s E-Enterprise initiative.  Additionally, EPA will work to ensure that our efforts to improve air quality consider low-income and minority communities that are disproportionately impacted by pollution.  The Agency will continue to implement the goals of the Environmental Justice (EJ) 2014 strategy that focus on protecting health in communities overburdened by pollution, empowering communities to take action to improve their health and environment, and establishing partnerships with local, state, tribal, and federal organizations to achieve healthy and sustainable communities.     EPA has finalized a number of air pollution control standards over the last decade that have substantially reduced, and will continue to reduce, PM, NOx, volatile organic chemicals (VOCs), air toxics, and GHG emissions.  These standards will cut emissions from new vehicles and engines by over 90 percent, with an estimated $290 billion in net health benefits by 2030.  In addition, EPA partnership programs such as the SmartWay Transport program, are achieving important reductions in emissions from the existing fleet of diesel engines that are not subject to the new standards.[3]     Looking forward, EPA will collect and evaluate mobile source emission data to help guide future program priorities.  Other factors to consider include the health and environmental effects of emissions and future advancements in technology that could provide opportunities for further emission reductions.  The Agency also recognizes the importance of fuels work and the critical need to understand the challenges and opportunities this work presents.  EPA will continue to coordinate with the Department of Energy (DOE), Department of Agriculture (USDA), and other interagency partners on these issues as appropriate.  The Agency plans to focus on streamlining the implementation processes of the renewable fuel standard (RFS) program, including the annual standard-setting process and new fuel pathway approvals.  EPA will also strengthen its oversight of industry compliance with RFS standards and core fuels and fuels additive registration mandates through a voluntary third-party quality assurance program to verify that renewable identification numbers (RINs) have been validly generated.  In addition, proposed modifications to the exporter provisions of the RFS program will help to ensure that an appropriate number and type of RINs are retired whenever renewable fuel is exported.     Air toxics and other air pollutants can be widespread and/or community specific.  They are emitted by large industry, small businesses, motor vehicles, and many other common activities. Although certain chemicals are ubiquitous throughout the country, in some areas of concentrated industrial and/or mobile source activity, concentrations may be significantly greater.  To support effective air toxics reduction policies, EPA uses data from our national toxics monitoring network and from national and local assessments to provide key information to better characterize risks and assess priorities.  EPA also leverages pollution prevention and green expertise to reduce air toxics emissions and associated risk.     EPA recognizes that air toxics pose unique challenges both nationally and at the community level, and we focus on relatively high-risk sources, pollutants, and exposure situations.  EPA will continue to set and enforce control technology-based air toxics emissions standards and, where needed, amend those standards to address residual risk and technology advancements.  These regulations are aimed at reducing toxic air pollution from stationary sources and targeted priority source categories, reducing pollution in communities, utilizing a more cost-effective “sector-based” approach, and providing tools to help communities and other stakeholders participate in rulemaking.  Priority categories include petroleum refining, iron and steel manufacturing, chemical manufacturing, and Portland cement.  EPA takes advantage of the natural overlap of certain air toxics and criteria pollutant rules and coordinates the development and implementation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards and New Source Performance Standards (NSPSs) where appropriate.  By coordinating MACT standard development for specific source categories with other rulemaking efforts, EPA can substantially reduce the resources needed to develop standards; provide more certainty and lower cost for industry; simplify implementation for state, local, and tribal agencies; and, enhance cost-effective regulatory approaches.  To address unacceptable risks that may remain after implementing national strategies, EPA works with states, tribes, and local agencies and organizations to understand the risks at the local level, target the problem areas, and tailor reduction strategies and approaches to the unique situations in those areas.  To improve indoor air quality, EPA deploys programs that educate the public about indoor air quality concerns, including radon, and promotes public action to reduce potential risks in homes, schools, and workplaces.  Included among the people most exposed to indoor air pollutants are  those most susceptible to the effects—the young, the elderly, and the chronically ill.  In addition, EPA collaborates with state and tribal organizations, environmental and public health officials, housing, energy, and building organizations, school personnel who manage school environments, and health care providers who treat children prone to or suffering disproportionately from asthma.  The focus of these efforts is to create, expand, and leverage systems already in place to support community efforts to address indoor air quality health risks.     External Factors and Emerging Issues  External factors that will affect air quality program implementation include the outcome of the appeal of the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) decision and continuing legal challenges to stationary source rules.[4]  Also, impacts from a changing climate may worsen existing indoor environmental problems and introduce new ones as temperatures change and the frequency and/or severity of adverse outdoor events increase.  These impacts include increased mold from water damage and more time spent indoors where air may be of poorer quality.     Endnotes:   	U.S. EPA, 2006.  Air Quality Criteria for Lead (2006) Final Report.  EPA/600/R-05/144aF-bF.  Available at http://cfpub.epa.gov/ncea/cfm/recordisplay.cfm?deid=158823. U.S. EPA, 2008.  Integrated Science Assessment (ISA) for Sulfur Oxides—Health Criteria (Final Report).  EPA/600/R-08/047F.  Available at http://cfpub.epa.gov/ncea/cfm/recordisplay.cfm?deid=198843. U.S. EPA, 2008.  Integrated Science Assessment for Oxides of Nitrogen—Health Criteria (Final Report).  EPA/600/R-08/071.  Available at http://cfpub.epa.gov/ncea/cfm/recordisplay.cfm?deid=194645. 	In 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit remanded CAIR to EPA, but allowed the rule to remain in effect pending replacement by a valid rule.  In August 2012, the same court vacated EPA’s replacement rule (CSAPR).  The Agency successfully petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court to hear an appeal of the D.C. Circuit’s decision, and the Supreme Court is expected to issue its opinion on the merits by June 2014.  Depending on the outcome of that appeal, CAIR’s ultimate replacement could be either CSAPR or the product of a new EPA rulemaking effort. 	Recent air pollution control standards include the Tier 2 Motor Vehicle Emissions Standards and Gasoline Sulfur Control Requirements (February 2001); the 2007 Heavy-Duty Engine and Vehicle Standards and Highway Diesel Fuel Sulfur Control Highway Rule (January 2001); the Tier 4 Emission Standards (June 2004); and Locomotive Engines and Marine Compression-Ignition Engines rule (June 2008). 	In an August 21, 2012 opinion, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit vacated the CSAPR and ordered EPA to continue implementing CAIR pending development of a valid replacement.  The Agency successfully petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court to hear an appeal of the D.C. Circuit’s decision, and the Supreme Court is expected to issue its opinion on the merits by June 2014.  Please see http://www.epa.gov/crossstaterule/ for updates on CSAPR.    ","Office of Air and Radiation","EPA is on track to meet its strategic targets supporting this objective. By way of context, between 1980 and 2013, gross domestic product increased 145 percent, vehicle miles traveled increased 95 percent, energy consumption increased 25 percent, and the U.S. population grew by 39 percent. During the same period, total emissions of the six principal air pollutants dropped by 62 percent. Environmental indicators related to air toxics show improving outdoor air quality trends,[1] and continued progress in preventing lung cancer deaths from radon exposure and reducing adverse asthma health outcomes. Despite significant progress in improving air quality, in 2013 approximately 75.4 million people nationwide lived in counties with pollution levels above the primary National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) and emissions of air pollutants continued to impact air quality and human health.     In recent years, EPA has acted to dramatically improve America’s air quality by designing and developing national programs that, when fully implemented, will achieve significant gains in human health. These actions include finalizing standards that will improve air quality and save money at the gas pump, implementing health-based ambient air quality standards grounded in the best available scientific research, proposing regulations to ensure that all new wood heaters will emit significantly less particulate matter into communities, and proposing for the first time that refineries monitor emission in such a way that neighboring communities are not being exposed to unintended emissions. EPA also helped reduce risks of indoor air pollution by characterizing the risks to human health, developing techniques for reducing those risks, and educating the public and key sectors about actions they can take to reduce risks from indoor air.      [1] See EPA’s 2014 Report on the Environment for data related to: “Ambient Concentrations of Particulate Matter,” “Ambient Concentrations of Ozone,” and “Air Toxics Emissions.”           ","Natural Resources and Environment",,,
