"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Environmental Protection Agency",20,EPA,"Addressing Climate Change and Improving Air Quality",3328,3331,"Restore and Protect the Ozone Layer","Restore and protect the earth's stratospheric ozone layer and protect the public from the harmful effects of ultraviolet (UV) radiation.","EPA will implement programs that reduce and control ozone-depleting substances (ODS), enforce rules on their production, import, and emission, and facilitate the transition to alternative products that reduce GHG emissions and save energy.  EPA’s contributions to the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol will help to continue support for cost-effective projects designed to build capacity and eliminate ODS production and consumption in over 60 developing countries.  EPA will also continue partnership programs that educate the public about the importance of protection from harmful ultraviolet radiation.     External Factors and Emerging Issues  Protection of the ozone layer is a global problem that cannot be solved by domestic action alone—all nations must also phase out the use of ODS.  Much remains to be done in the U.S. and in the global community at large before the ozone layer will be considered safe for current and future generations.  Critical emerging issues include the need to ensure that:   	Ozone depleting substances are replaced by alternatives that reduce overall risk to human health and the environment; 	Use of the agricultural fumigant methyl bromide is phased out in a manner that provides continued control of pests that threaten food supplies and other economically important products traded internationally by the U.S.[14]; and, 	Remaining ODS phaseout, including the 2013 and 2015 developing-country ODS reduction requirements, is appropriately supported in a manner that is both cost effective and climate friendly.[1]      Endnotes:   	All countries that are Parties to the Montreal Protocol have agreed to phase out their production and consumption of ozone depleting substances (ODS). The Multilateral Fund was set up by agreement among the Parties, and the Fund’s purpose is to assist developing countries to comply with these obligations.  Contributions are made to the Multilateral Fund by developed countries, also referred to as donor countries under the Treaty.          ","Office of Air and Radiation","The EPA, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budge, has determined that performance toward this objective is making noteworthy progress. EPA continues to lead progress domestically and internationally in efforts to restore and protect the ozone layer. Domestically, the Agency is making progress as anticipated in the FY 2014–2018 EPA Strategic Plan, which states that by 2015, U.S. consumption of hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs)—chemicals that deplete the earth’s protective ozone layer—will be less than 1,520 tons per year of ozone depletion potential (ODP) from the 2009 baseline of 9,900 tons per year. Final FY 2013 data indicate that the United States has reduced HCFC consumption to 1,640 tons. EPA expects that, as a result of worldwide reduction in ODSs, the level of “equivalent effective stratospheric chlorine” in the atmosphere will have peaked at 3.185 parts per billion (ppb) of air by volume by 2015, and begun its gradual decline to less than 1.800 ppb (the 1980 level).  ","Natural Resources and Environment",,,
