"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"National Aeronautics and Space Administration",26,NASA,"Serve the public through excellence in NASA's workforce and assets.",3333,3335,"Ensure sustainable technical capabilities for NASA's future missions.","Ensure the availability and continued advancement of strategic, technical, and programmatic capabilities to sustain NASA’s Mission.","We identify and prioritize our essential assets and implement strategic investment decisions to sustain, enhance, replace, modify, or dispose of them based on NASA and National needs. We ensure that our key capabilities and critical assets will be available in the future to support the missions that require them. For example, we provide launch services to NASA and civil sector missions, as well as an uninterrupted, reliable space communications network to allow data transmissions to Earth from space. Both of these capabilities are critical to making space missions feasible, safe, and efficient.  NASA’s technical capabilities and assets support NASA missions as well as the work of others beyond NASA. Other Federal agencies and the private sector use our specialized facilities to test and evaluate items to mitigate risk and optimize engineering designs. We manage our technical capabilities and assets carefully through strategic investments and sustainable practices that ensure their readiness for NASA and other customers.","Human Exploration Operations Mission Directorate","NASA, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, has highlighted this strategic objective as a focus area for improvement.  Through the Strategic Review and Agency’s other performance management processes, NASA reviews recent accomplishments and near term plans for Agency’s strategic objectives and programs. Under Strategic Objective 3.2, multiple NASA programs provide critical services and strategic technical programmatic capabilities for the Agency. Recent examples of progress include the successful launches of missions such as the Soil Moisture Active Passive (SMAP) mission and the Magnetospheric Multiscale (MMS) mission via the Launch Services Program (LSP), and the Rocket Propulsion Test (RPT) program has completed 368 successful tests with 98.4% test stand availability. Over the next several years, NASA’s critical next steps are to complete the second new 34-meter deep-space antenna at Canberra by the end of FY 2016, continue development of the Space Network Ground Segment Sustainment (SGSS) project, provide valuable propulsion data to the SLS and Orion programs as they prepare for Exploration Missions 1 and 2, and continue to successfully launch the assigned NASA and civil sector robotic missions plus acquire new launch services for future NASA missions.  Specific performance measures for the next two years can be found in NASA’s FY 2016 and FY 2017 Annual Performance Plans.   The Strategic Review also addresses long-term strategic outcomes, alignment, and key management challenges for each strategic objective, as well as across NASA’s portfolio of activities. The NASA 2015 Strategic Review noted that areas for improvement for this strategic objective include challenges within the Space Communications and Navigation (SCaN) portfolio. These issues constitute significant budget and programmatic challenges to the Agency’s critical network and communication activities.  For more information, highlighted achievements during FY 2015 are detailed in the FY 2015 Agency Financial Report. Additional details on the FY 2015 performance for supporting Performance Goals and Annual Performance Indicators are provided in NASA’s FY 2015 Annual Performance Report. Information on the strategies for achieving this strategic objective can be found in the 2014 NASA Strategic Plan.    ","General Science, Space, and Technology",,,
