"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"National Aeronautics and Space Administration",26,NASA,"Serve the public through excellence in NASA's workforce and assets.",3333,3336,"Provide secure, effective and affordable IT for NASA.","Provide secure, effective, and affordable information technologies and services that enable NASA’s Mission.","Information technology (IT) is critical to NASA’s infrastructure and mission success. To support NASA’s missions effectively, we must inspire excellence in IT planning and service delivery across organizational and functional boundaries. We must find ways to use information technology that supports a more collaborative, geographically diverse and mobile working culture, keeps our IT skills and capabilities up-to-date to serve NASA’s missions, and protects those missions from ever-evolving IT security threats.  Our approach to IT planning and service delivery emphasizes responsive innovation, transparency, and accountability. In planning, we take an agency-wide view that considers NASA’s diverse mission needs to guide IT policy, investment decisions, and management practices. At the same time, our approach calls for rigorous assessments of investment trade-offs and sequencing to balance the cost, quality, and timing of our IT capabilities to optimize value while limiting mission risk. We will collaborate with NASA leaders to prioritize and sequence our information management investments to deliver the right blend of capabilities over time to effectively and affordably support NASA.   ","Office of the Chief Information Officer","NASA, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, has highlighted this strategic objective as a focus area for improvement.  Through the Strategic Review and the Agency’s other performance management processes, NASA reviews recent accomplishments and near term plans for the Agency’s strategic objectives and programs. The Agency Information Technology (IT) Services Program falls under Strategic Objective 3.3, managed by the Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO). During the 2015 Strategic Review, NASA found that OCIO is on track for several performance measures, including the Security Operations Center (SOC) upgrades and cross-agency priority (CAP) goals, such as the Smarter IT Delivery CAP goal. Specific performance measures for the next two years can be found in NASA’s FY 2016 and FY 2017 Annual Performance Plans.  The Strategic Review also addresses long-term strategic outcomes, alignment, and key management challenges for each strategic objective, as well as across NASA’s portfolio of activities. During last year’s Strategic Review, Strategic Objective 3.3 was rated as achieving Satisfactory Performance. For 2015, the OCIO assessed NASA’s performance toward achieving Strategic Objective 3.3 for IT from a broader perspective (as opposed to only assessing the Agency IT Services Program). As a result, the assessment shows that NASA has the opportunity for significant strategic improvement. No single entity controls and oversees NASA’s overall IT requirements, budget, resources, and results. Analyses show that areas (stovepipes) within the current IT management and operating models are unsustainable. OCIO identified a range of opportunities and strategic risks/challenges. OCIO plans to take the following near term actions:   	Implement a functionally aligned program for enterprise IT infrastructure services that focuses on sustainable, efficient, integrated, and secure IT to enable NASA’s mission. 	 		Based on internal management decisions and on new requirements from Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act (FITARA), changes to NASA’s IT policy, governance, strategy, and/or management and operating models may be required. 	 	 	Implement an integrated risk management approach that addresses management of investment risk, IT program/project risk, and cybersecurity risk. 	Implement a portfolio management capability to optimize enablement of NASA’s mission goals and objectives through the strategic application of IT.      These performance improvement actions will result in a transformation of the NASA IT management and operating models.  For more information, please see https://www.nasa.gov/offices/ocio/home/. Highlighted achievements during FY 2015 are detailed in the FY 2015 Agency Financial Report. Additional details on the FY 2015 performance for supporting Performance Goals and Annual Performance Indicators are provided in NASA’s FY 2015 Annual Performance Report. Information on the strategies for achieving this strategic objective can be found in the 2014 NASA Strategic Plan.","General Science, Space, and Technology",,,
