"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"National Aeronautics and Space Administration",26,NASA,"Expand the space frontier.",3343,3344,"Develop evolving exploration systems and capabilities.","Expand human presence into the solar system and to the surface of Mars to advance exploration, science, innovation, benefits to humanity, and international collaboration.  ","Over the next decades, NASA intends to erase the boundaries to human exploration of space. We want to open new frontiers beyond low Earth orbit to humankind. NASA is expanding human exploration by developing the capability to transport humans to and from deep space, enabling the exploration of other planets and asteroids within our solar system using innovative, advanced technologies.  As a starting point, exploring deep space requires the capability to transport cargo and crew beyond low Earth orbit, or farther than 2,000 kilometers beyond Earth. NASA is developing a new transportation system that includes a crew capsule, a heavy-lift launch vehicle, and supporting ground facilities and systems.  NASA is developing technologies to enable the additional capabilities that will be required the farther away from Earth we travel. These include the capabilities for in-space propulsion, in-space operations, long-duration habitation, and other systems to support humans in hostile environments. Precursor robotics, robotic missions that investigate candidate destinations and provide vital information to prepare for human explorers, will lay the groundwork for humans to achieve new milestones in deep space.  The capability to transport humans to and from deep space will leverage incremental development of exploration capabilities that seed future discoveries and innovation, and eventually lead to creation of a permanent, long-term human space presence in the solar system. Our exploration of deep space will reward us with new knowledge. While new knowledge increases our understanding of our planet, our solar system, our universe, and ourselves, Americans expect tangible benefits and applications that we can use on Earth. If the past is prologue, scientists and entrepreneurs will generate new uses for the knowledge and technology resulting from NASA’s investments in exploration systems, and this in turn will grow the U.S. economy.","Human Exploration Operations Mission Directorate","Through the Strategic Review and NASA’s other performance management processes, NASA reviews recent accomplishments and near-term plans for the Agency’s strategic objectives and programs. Under Strategic Objective 1.1, NASA is developing a new human deep-space exploration architecture, consisting of the Space Launch System (SLS), Orion spacecraft, and Exploration Ground Systems (EGS) programs, as well as the Advanced Exploration Systems (AES) program. Under Strategic Objective 1.1, an extremely significant recent accomplishment was the successful Orion Exploration Flight Test-1 in December 2014. This was the first test flight of the Orion spacecraft, which is designed to take humans on deep-space missions in the future. Orion did not carry any people into space on this flight, but it became the first human-rated spacecraft to leave low Earth orbit since the Apollo 17 mission. Over the next several years, NASA’s critical next steps include making progress towards Exploration Mission (EM)-1, an uncrewed test flight to distant retrograde lunar orbit (and the first pairing of Orion with SLS). AES continues to mature enabling technologies critical for exploration missions in areas, such as habitation (life support), crew mobility systems (extra-vehicular activity), and vehicle systems (lander technology). Moreover, AES is developing secondary payloads for the EM-1 mission to address Strategic Knowledge Gaps for future missions. AES is also jointly developing payloads with the Space Technology Mission Directorate to demonstrate in-situ resource utilization on the upcoming Mars 2020 mission. Specific performance measures for the next two years can be found in NASA’s FY 2016 and FY 2017 Annual Performance Plans.  The Strategic Review also addresses long-term strategic outcomes, alignment, and key management challenges for each strategic objective, as well as across NASA’s portfolio of activities. A current indicator of challenges for this strategic objective is that NASA did not fully achieve the Agency Priority Goal associated with this strategic objective in FY 2015. In 10 years, NASA plans to have a new human deep-space exploration architecture with SLS, Orion, and other high-priority capabilities needed for human exploration/pioneering. However, NASA has limited strategic indicators beyond Exploration Mission (EM) 2 (in the post-2022 timeframe). To address this, NASA is currently developing an integrated exploration strategy, and these indicators are under development.  For more information, please see http://www.nasa.gov/exploration/systems/index.html and http://www.nasa.gov/directorates/heo/aes/index.html. Highlighted achievements during FY 2015 are detailed in the FY 2015 Agency Financial Report. Additional details on the FY 2015 performance for supporting Performance Goals and Annual Performance Indicators are provided in NASA’s FY 2015 Annual Performance Report. Information on the strategies for achieving this strategic objective can be found in the 2014 NASA Strategic Plan.","General Science, Space, and Technology",1250,"FY14-15 : Achieve critical milestones in development of new systems for the human exploration of deep space.","NASA is developing the nation’s first human deep-space exploration capability in the form of the Space Launch System (SLS) and the Orion crew vehicle. With the supporting Exploration Ground Systems (EGS), the SLS and Orion will carry humans farther into space than ever before, and are essential for exploration of deep space, including future human exploration of Mars. Human space exploration inspires the nation to seek knowledge through scientific discovery, advancing our understanding of the universe. As the foundation of the human exploration endeavor which will drive the Space Economy, these programs are fueling the creation of new industries, job growth, and the demand for a highly skilled workforce. NASA’s human exploration portfolio will be the initial catalyst for a better life on Earth, advancing American leadership in space, and creating a path for peace, diplomacy, and global cooperation.  NASA’s first flight of the SLS with the Orion crew vehicle, the EM-1, is currently targeted for launch in FY 2018. The EM-1 is the first flight of an uncrewed mission that will orbit the Moon and return safely to Earth. The EM-1 flight will exercise multiple systems and technical approaches in preparation for a crewed mission. To successfully achieve the goal of launching EM-1 in FY 2018, the SLS launch vehicle, Orion spacecraft and EGS programs will complete several significant design reviews as well as test flight and ground hardware and software prior to launch. The successful completion of these milestones, in conjunction with the final assembly and test of the launch vehicle and spacecraft hardware at the Kennedy Space Center launch site, will enable the successful launch of the EM-1 flight. By the end of FY 2015, all three programs-SLS, Orion and EGS-will have completed their individual Critical Design Reviews (CDRs), ensuring the whole exploration system progresses toward the EM-1 flight in FY 2018. The SLS program CDR is the culmination of the various SLS elements’ final design reviews and will be held by the end of FY 2015. The program CDR will assess the ability of the overall launch vehicle design to meet the mission requirements with acceptable risk and appropriate margins within the defined cost, schedule and technical constraints. Similar to the SLS, the Orion program CDR will be the culmination of several more detailed reviews. Critical flight data from the Exploration Flight Test-1 mission, the first Orion test flight to be launched in 2014, will provide information to finalize the design of the Orion spacecraft. Additionally, one of the final design reviews will focus on the Service Module, which will be developed for NASA by the European Space Agency (ESA). NASA is leveraging its strong international partnership with ESA-established in the development of the International Space Station (ISS). ESA will provide the European Service Module, a critical Orion element, in support of the first integrated test flight on the SLS launch vehicle, EM-1 in FY 2018. The Orion program CDR will assess the ability of the overall spacecraft design to meet the mission requirements with acceptable risk and appropriate margins within the defined cost, schedule and technical constraints. The Exploration Ground Systems program CDR will be the culmination of several system-level final design reviews. For example, the mobile launcher (ML), which will provide all of the necessary ground system connections and services to the SLS launch vehicle and Orion spacecraft, will complete structural modifications by the end of this goal. After the structural modifications are complete, additional modifications of the ML will continue through FY 2017. The EGS program CDR will assess the ability of the overall ground systems designs in meeting the mission requirements with acceptable risk and appropriate margins within the defined cost, schedule and technical constraints."
