"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"National Aeronautics and Space Administration",26,NASA,"Expand the space frontier.",3343,3346,"Foster the commercialization of space transportation.","Facilitate and utilize U.S. commercial capabilities to deliver cargo and crew to space.","Partnerships with American industry to enable U.S. commercial crew transportation to low Earth orbit will stimulate a commercial industry, promote job growth, and expand knowledge, as well as supply the ISS. NASA envisions commercial human spaceflight to low Earth orbit becoming a robust, vibrant, profit-making commercial enterprise with many providers and a wide range of private and public users. Our role in this enterprise is to provide expertise, incentives, and opportunities to the emerging human space flight industry. We will purchase transportation services to meet our International Space Station crew rotation and emergency return obligations. A vibrant, job-creating, profit-making transportation system for humans and cargo to low Earth orbit will significantly contribute to the national economy.   ","Human Exploration Operations Mission Directorate","Through the Strategic Review and NASA’s other performance management processes, NASA reviews recent accomplishments and near term plans for the Agency’s strategic objectives and programs. Under Strategic Objective 1.3, NASA is supporting the development of U.S. commercial space transportation capabilities to reduce the gap in launching crew and cargo from the United States. NASA selected two U.S. companies as Commercial Crew Transportation contract partners in September 2014 and both partners are making technical and programmatic progress. For example, in May 2015 Agency partner SpaceX conducted a test of their Dragon spacecraft launch escape capabilities, demonstrating the ability to save astronauts in the unlikely event of a life-threatening situation on the launch pad. A major recent accomplishment for Strategic Objective 1.3 is the completion of the first phase of certification efforts with NASA’s Commercial Crew Transportation partners. With this accomplishment, NASA successfully achieved one of NASA’s Agency Priority Goals. Over the next several years, the Agency’s critical next steps are to monitor partner progress and milestone completion, working towards full certification including a crew flight test to the International Space Station with a NASA astronaut. Specific performance measures for the next two years can be found in NASA’s FY 2016 and FY 2017 Annual Performance Plans.  The Strategic Review also addresses long-term strategic outcomes, alignment, and key management challenges for each strategic objective, as well as across NASA’s portfolio of activities. In 10 years, NASA plans that the Agency’s current efforts under Strategic Objective 1.3 will lead to the ability to utilize U.S. commercial space transportation capabilities to provide safe, reliable, and cost effective access to and from low Earth orbit and the ISS for crew and cargo. This ability is critical for NASA’s integrated space development and exploration plans, but the NASA 2015 Strategic Review noted that the Commercial Crew Program has faced a historical disconnect between requested and appropriated funding. Funding instability can force NASA to continue the Agency’s sole reliance on Russia longer for launching its astronauts to the International Space Station.   For more information, please see http://www.nasa.gov/exploration/commercial/crew/index.html.Highlighted achievements during FY 2015 are detailed in the FY 2015 Agency Financial Report. Additional details on the FY 2015 performance for supporting Performance Goals and Annual Performance Indicators are provided in NASA’s FY 2015 Annual Performance Report. Information on the strategies for achieving this strategic objective can be found in the 2014 NASA Strategic Plan.    ","General Science, Space, and Technology",1246,"FY14-15 : Facilitate the development of and certify U.S. industry-based crew transportation systems while maintaining competition.","The Commercial Crew Program is helping facilitate the development of U.S. commercial crew space transportation capabilities with the goal of achieving safe, reliable, and cost effective access to and from low Earth orbit and the International Space Station (ISS). Enabling a U.S. industry-based capability can facilitate development of a commercial market, providing new high-technology jobs and reduce the cost of human access to space. A successful commercial market will further open the frontier for space exploration. NASA is focused on ensuring that the current phase of crew system development, the Commercial Crew integrated Capability, (CCiCap), is successful at maturing the system designs and completing initial testing. Under CCiCap, U.S. space industry partners are working to mature designs of their integrated crew transportation systems, including spacecraft, launch vehicle, ground and mission systems. In December 2012, NASA initiated the first phase of crew transportation systems certification by awarding three Certification Products Contracts (CPC). Under CPC, commercial partners are working with NASA to develop products that meet the agency's flight safety and performance requirements and specifications. This includes certification across all aspects of the integrated system, including the spacecraft, launch vehicle, and ground and mission operations. Integrated system verification plans, hazard reports, alternate standards and certification plans are being developed to ensure safe, crewed missions to and from the space station. The second phase of certification will begin after CPC, and will involve a full and open competition. The second phase of certification will involve final systems development, qualification and acceptance testing, orbital demonstration flights, and initial service flights of NASA crew to the International Space Station. By the end of FY 2015, measurable progress on this second phase of certification will be evidenced. Competition will be maintained."
