"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"National Aeronautics and Space Administration",26,NASA,"Expand the space frontier.",3343,3348,"Understand the solar system.","Ascertain the content, origin, and evolution of the solar system and the potential for life elsewhere.","Planetary science continues to expand our knowledge of the solar system, with active missions and Earth-based research programs exploring all the way from Mercury to Pluto and beyond. We seek to answer fundamental questions: How did our solar system form and evolve? Is there life beyond Earth? What are the hazards to life on Earth?  Robotic exploration is the principal method we use to explore the solar system, and is an essential precursor to human exploration of space. Ground based observations, experiments, theoretical work, and analysis of extraterrestrial materials supplement our space-based assets. Each progression from flybys, to orbiting spacecraft, to landers and rovers, to sample return missions helps advance our understanding of the formation of planetary bodies, the chemical and physical history of the solar system, and the conditions that are capable of sustaining life. The successful Mars Science Laboratory Curiosity, for example, is allowing us to explore the potential habitats for past life on Mars.  Our investment in planetary science helps us protect Earth by identifying and characterizing celestial bodies and environments that may pose threats to our planet. Further, planetary science programs add to the pool of knowledge necessary for future human exploration missions. In support of the Asteroid Grand Challenge, we will enhance our Near Earth Objects Observation program to improve the detection and characterization of potential asteroid candidates for robotic and crewed exploration.  ","Science Mission Directorate","NASA, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, has determined that performance toward this strategic objective is making noteworthy progress.  Through the Strategic Review and the Agency’s other performance management processes, NASA reviews recent accomplishments and near term plans for the Agency’s strategic objectives and programs. NASA’s Strategic Objective 1.5 is pursued by the Science Mission Directorate (SMD) Planetary Science Division, which continues to expand the Agency’s knowledge of the solar system. For example, in FY 2015, the New Horizons mission accomplished the historic first-ever flyby of Pluto, and the Dawn spacecraft arrived at Ceres, the largest object in the main asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter. The Planetary Science Division launched their last three missions below each mission’s development cost estimates, and particularly noteworthy scientific discoveries were announced in the last year. Our critical next steps include continuing the development of the next Planetary Science missions, including the Mars 2020 mission and the Origins, Spectral Interpretation, Resource Identification, and Security-Regolith Explorer (OSIRIS-REx) asteroid mission. Specific performance measures for the next two years can be found in NASA’s FY 2016 and FY 2017 Annual Performance Plans.  The Strategic Review also addresses long-term strategic outcomes, alignment, and key management challenges for each strategic objective, as well as across NASA’s portfolio of activities. In 10 years, NASA plans that the Agency’s current efforts under Strategic Objective 1.5 will lead to further understanding of the content, origin, and evolution of the solar system as well as the potential for life elsewhere. A recurrent threat in this area is the requirements creep that missions may face, which, if left unchecked, likely would lead to cost growth and schedule slip.  Many of the key challenges for the Planetary Science Division are common across all of the SMD divisions (access to space; technology development; project technical, cost, and schedule challenges; partnerships; and mission support services and infrastructure) and are articulated in the 2014 Science Plan. With the current and anticipated budget, it is difficult to maintain a balanced program between competed and strategic missions, across planetary destinations, and among research and technology investments. However, Planetary Science is sustaining extensive intra- and extra-Agency partnerships, and is pursuing efficiencies and informed investments tied to long-term strategic needs.  For more information, please see http://solarsystem.nasa.gov/index.cfm. Highlighted achievements during FY 2015 are detailed in the FY 2015 Agency Financial Report. Additional details on the FY 2015 performance for supporting Performance Goals and Annual Performance Indicators are provided in NASA’s FY 2015 Annual Performance Report. Information on the strategies for achieving this strategic objective can be found in the 2014 NASA Strategic Plan. Additional information on strategies, challenges, implementation, and program-specific detail is available in the NASA 2014 Science Plan.","General Science, Space, and Technology",,,
