"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"National Aeronautics and Space Administration",26,NASA,"Expand the space frontier.",3343,3350,"Develop enabling space technologies for NASA and the nation.","Transform NASA missions and advance the Nation’s capabilities by maturing crosscutting and innovative space technologies.","NASA invests in cross-cutting, transformational space technologies that have high potential for offsetting mission risk, reducing costs, and advancing existing capabilities, which makes achieving more challenging missions possible. These technologies enable a new class of space missions; strengthen our Nation’s leadership in space-related science, technology, and industrial base; and foster a technology-based U.S. economy.  Drawing on talent from our workforce, academia, small business, and the broader space enterprise, NASA delivers innovative solutions that dramatically improve technological capabilities for our mission and the Nation. Development and infusion of these new capabilities improves the reliability of future missions and is vital to reaching new heights in space and sending American astronauts to new destinations, such as an asteroid or Mars.  ","Space Technology Mission Directorate","Through the Strategic Review and the Agency’s other performance management processes, NASA reviews recent accomplishments and near term plans for the Agency’s strategic objectives and programs. Under Strategic Objective 1.7, NASA’s Space Technology Mission Directorate (STMD) works to mature crosscutting and innovative space technologies. STMD is making great strides by delivering new technologies and capabilities (for example, completing the first two major demonstration of the Low Density Supersonic Decelerator, advancing the state of the art in high power solar arrays to enable future electric propulsion systems, completing mission infusion review of compression pad technology for Orion Exploration Mission (EM) 1, delivering Robonaut 2 legs and 3D printer hardware to the ISS, and flying PhoneSat missions).  Over the next several years, NASA’s critical next steps are to continue exploring early stage concepts, advancing promising new technologies, and maturing transformative solutions for flight demonstration. This approach will include continued emphasis on portfolio balance and lean, rapid technology development. STMD will also continue to emphasize partnerships within and outside the Agency. Specific performance measures for the next two years can be found in NASA’s FY 2016 and FY 2017 Annual Performance Plans.  The Strategic Review also addresses long-term strategic outcomes, alignment, and key management challenges for each strategic objective, as well as across NASA’s portfolio of activities. In 10 years, NASA plans that the Agency’s current efforts under Strategic Objective 1.7 will lead to advancing technology solutions that address NASA mission challenges and other national needs, as well as the market challenges of providing state-of-the-art commercial space products and services that significantly benefit the commercial space sector. However, STMD foresees several challenges and is pursing risk mitigation strategies for these issues.   	This strategic objective has faced historical funding uncertainty, which creates programmatic planning challenges. STMD strives to remain flexible in an uncertain budget environment. 	STMD pursues high-risk technology development. As is expected in such endeavors, STMD experiences challenges and setbacks. STMD continues to respond to budget constraints; cost, schedule, and performance issues; and other factors with both preventative and corrective actions. 	STMD recognizes the opportunity to further improve the integration of activities and technology transition. To increase the probability of transition, STMD conducts activities such as early stage innovation workshops, is increasing emphasis on SBIR post-Phase II activities, and is investing in tipping point technologies that are particularly promising opportunities for the U.S. commercial space sector. 	Access to space is also a challenge. To demonstrate new technology capabilities in space, STMD relies on rideshare launch capabilities (i.e., as secondary payloads or hosted payloads). Increasing launch costs and limited availability are challenges.      For more information, please see http://www.nasa.gov/directorates/spacetech/home/. Highlighted achievements during FY 2015 are detailed in the FY 2015 Agency Financial Report. Additional details on the FY 2015 performance for supporting Performance Goals and Annual Performance Indicators are provided in NASA’s FY 2015 Annual Performance Report. Information on the strategies for achieving this strategic objective can be found in the 2014 NASA Strategic Plan.         ","General Science, Space, and Technology",,,
