"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Energy",19,DOE,"Nuclear Security",5232,5242,"Nuclear Deterrent","Maintain the safety, security and effectiveness of the nation’s nuclear deterrent without nuclear testing","In order to reassure allies and deter potential adversaries as long as nuclear weapons exist, the U.S. must sustain a safe, secure, and effective nuclear arsenal. NNSA will continue to work closely with the Department of Defense (DoD), through the Joint DoD/DOE Nuclear Weapons Council (NWC), to modernize the stockpile through timely execution of approved life extension programs, as outlined in the Stockpile Stewardship and Management Plan (SSMP). The SSMP, which is updated annually, details the 25-year program of record for activities supporting the nuclear weapons stockpile. The SSMP, as well as the NWC, is informed by NNSA technical scoping studies, cost and risk analysis, and resource allocation modeling of alternatives.  As the nation’s nuclear weapons age and exceed their stockpile design life, the NNSA must extend their lifespan. The 2010 NPR report, an extensive review of the nation’s nuclear posture, recommended that study options for weapon life extension programs (LEP) consider three approaches: refurbishment of existing warheads, reuse of nuclear components from different warheads, and replacement of nuclear components. The NPR report recommended fully funding the ongoing LEP for the W76 submarine-based warhead, the LEP study and follow-on activities for the B61 bomb, and to initiate a study of LEP options for the W78 intercontinental ballistic missile warhead, including the possibility of reusing the warhead on submarine-launched ballistic missiles to reduce the number of warhead types.  Without recourse to nuclear testing, NNSA will deliver the scientific capability to assess weapon performance as well as the component and manufacturing technologies and supporting infrastructure required to execute the SSMP. NNSA will ensure the safe and secure transportation of nuclear materials and weapons components. At the same time, NNSA will advance the President’s vision for reductions in nuclear weapons by dismantling retired weapons.","National Nuclear Security Administration","Last year, agencies were required to review progress made toward strategic objectives using the agency Strategic Plan, and release summary results on Performance.gov in February 2015. The agency’s strategic review considers performance goals and other evidence, as well as challenges, risks, and external factors that may have affected the outcomes. OMB works with agencies to determine which strategic objectives require focused improvement or noteworthy progress relative to other strategic objectives. Because the Department of Energy released their strategic plan late in 2014, the Department did not complete a strategic review in 2014, but is expected to conduct the review in the future.","National Defense",3901,"FY14-15 : Maintain and modernize the U.S. nuclear weapons stockpile and dismantle excess nuclear weapons to meet the national security requirements, as assigned by the President, through the Nuclear Posture Review.","The National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) ensures that nuclear warheads and bombs in the United States (U.S.) nuclear weapons operationally-deployed stockpile are safe, secure, reliable (effective), and available to the President for deployment. Until the world is free of nuclear weapons, the U.S. will assess and maintain a safe, secure, and effective stockpile that deters adversaries and assures allies that they are covered by the U.S. nuclear deterrent umbrella. However, because these weapons will exist for an indefinite period, the U.S. must manage its stockpile while meeting the overarching objectives of: 1) Providing no new military capabilities; 2) Conducting no underground nuclear tests; 3) Requiring no production of new fissile material for warheads; and 4) Contributing to U.S. nonproliferation goals. The NNSA shares responsibilities with the Department of Defense (DoD) for the implementation of actions that follow from the President's Nuclear Weapon Stockpile Memorandum and the 2010 Nuclear Posture Review. Our nation's nuclear weapons are exceeding their stockpile design life and their lifespan must be extended while maintaining the weapons’ safety, security, and effectiveness. At the same time, the NNSA must confront challenges arising from the loss of original manufacturing capabilities, specialized labor skills, and certification without returning to underground nuclear testing. These life extensions cannot be allowed to degrade the historically high confidence levels that underpin our nuclear deterrent. Key Barriers and Challenges: The NNSA is committed to the national security requirement to meet the immediate needs of the stockpile while maintaining the basic research and development, technology, and production infrastructure to respond to technical and geopolitical surprise. The NNSA underpins both confidence in the stockpile and reinforcement of the DoD and other national security interests. To fulfill NNSA's commitment to DoD and the nation, the NNSA works together with its DoD partner to identify priorities and make the appropriate adjustments to scope and schedule that will achieve the goals of the President and the NPR. NNSA must conduct surveillance and annual assessments as the nuclear weapons stockpile ages. If technical surprises were to occur, the nation must have safe and secure facilities and the science and engineering base to respond. Infrastructure modernization delays continue to challenge NNSA's ability to maintain nuclear surveillance and assessment capability. NNSA must continue to meet facility safety and security requirements and work to achieve efficiencies where possible.  The nation must maintain an unequaled capability to understand the design and physics of any nuclear device. This understanding extends beyond the stewardship of our own stockpile and includes an ability to analyze and effectively respond to any nuclear threat.  The highly-skilled workforce that designed, tested, produced, and manufactured weapons which entered the stockpile needs to be replaced with the next generation of designers, engineers, and scientists trained in the unique capabilities required and armed with adequate tools and production facilities to steward the nuclear weapons stockpile as it evolves. Stakeholder Engagement: Management of this priority goal will require close coordination with the Department of Defense (DoD). The DoD and the NNSA share joint responsibility for all U.S. nuclear weapons. Part of keeping the U.S. nuclear weapons stockpile safe, secure, and reliable includes working with the DoD to maintain the quantity and quality of weapons necessary for U.S. national security needs. From the earliest days of the Manhattan Project, the DoD and NNSA have maintained a set of joint programs to maintain the U.S. nuclear stockpile and counter the threat of nuclear proliferation."
