"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Energy",19,DOE,"Nuclear Security",5232,5262,"Strengthen Key Science, Technology, and Engineering Capabilities and Modernize the National Security Infrastructure","Strengthen key science, technology, and engineering capabilities and modernize the national security infrastructure","In the National Security Strategy, the President renewed the Nation’s commitment to being the global engine of scientific discovery and innovation. DOE helps prepare the Nation for a range of potential national security challenges by strengthening science, technology and engineering capabilities, and providing a modernized, responsive infrastructure. The Nuclear Posture Review notes that our specialized workforce is essential to managing the deterrent and supporting the full range of the President’s nuclear security agenda. DOE provides the experimental and computational capability and infrastructure required to execute the Stockpile Stewardship and Management Program and other DOE national security missions. By working at the leading edge of multiple scientific and technical disciplines, the DOE nuclear security programs integrate scientific principles, address theory, field physical experiments, and conduct complex modeling and simulation to support not only the assessment and certification of the Nation’s nuclear weapons, but also nonproliferation, counter-proliferation, nuclear counterterrorism, and intelligence activities. DOE will bolster the capabilities of the U.S. government to address cyber and other related security threats through research and development, vulnerability analyses, testing at physical and virtual ranges, and modeling and simulation.  NNSA will modernize the Department’s infrastructure to safely and securely manage special nuclear materials, with priority on executing plans to ensure continuity of plutonium capability at Los Alamos National Laboratory and highly enriched uranium processing capability at the Y-12 Plant. NNSA will also ensure the safety and security of its facilities, which will include modernizing its infrastructure and added emphasis on site security across the nuclear security complex.  NNSA stewards the NNSA national laboratories and sites as an enterprise to deliver DOE programs, provide critical capabilities to support other national security missions, and drive innovation. Talented researchers, engineers, and technicians work across a range of national-level challenges and enhance their skills and expertise by working concurrently on stockpile stewardship and other national priority missions. For example, supercomputers are key to stockpile stewardship, but also have been used to provide foreign threat assessments and to open up the field of nanotechnology. NNSA relies on key capabilities at other DOE national laboratories to deliver its nuclear security missions, and works closely with DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy.  By sponsoring research programs at universities and student internships at DOE labs to secure a pipeline of national security professionals, DOE plays a critical role in ensuring the intellectual vitality of the national security technical enterprise. DOE also pursues strategic interagency partnerships with the Departments of State, Defense, and Homeland Security, and the U.S. Intelligence Community to ensure that our technical capabilities are accessible and applied to meet the needs of the broader national security community.","National Nuclear Security Administration","Last year, agencies were required to review progress made toward strategic objectives using the agency Strategic Plan, and release summary results on Performance.gov in February 2015. The agency’s strategic review considers performance goals and other evidence, as well as challenges, risks, and external factors that may have affected the outcomes. OMB works with agencies to determine which strategic objectives require focused improvement or noteworthy progress relative to other strategic objectives. Because the Department of Energy released their strategic plan late in 2014, the Department did not complete a strategic review in 2014, but is expected to conduct the review in the future.","National Defense",,,
