"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Energy",19,DOE,"Nuclear Security",5232,5272,"Reduce Global Nuclear Security Threats","Reduce global nuclear security threats","Preventing nuclear terrorism and the spread of nuclear weapons-related materials, technology, and expertise is a key U.S. national security strategic objective defined in Presidential statements and national security strategy and policy documents. The Department pursues this objective by: providing policy and technical leadership to remove and eliminate, or secure and safeguard the most vulnerable nuclear materials worldwide; limiting or preventing the transfer and trafficking of weapons of mass destruction, WMD-related materials, technology, and expertise; advancing national and international technical capabilities to understand and detect foreign nuclear weapons production and detonation; and developing a comprehensive science-based predictive model for a broad range of nuclear threat devices. DOE also works to strengthen regulatory, safety, security and safeguards infrastructure in countries new to nuclear power; provide and maintain a technically trained-and-ready response to radiological or nuclear incidents worldwide; and provide technical and analytical support, and capability development, for meeting and monitoring compliance with nuclear nonproliferation, counter-proliferation, nuclear forensics, and arms control treaties.  In pursuing this objective, NNSA works in partnership with the Departments of State, Defense, Homeland Security, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Intelligence Community, and other U.S. agencies. Internationally, DOE has a strong and long-established partnership with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and actively conducts bilateral program coordination, as well as multilateral consultations through fora such as the Nuclear Security Summit, the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism, and the Global Partnership against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction. These exchanges, as well as a variety of domestic and international workshops, tabletop and national-level full-field exercises, provide a real-time capability to reduce nuclear security threats, and validate improvements to that capability. DOE also uses the knowledge gained from these information exchanges to inform its regular program strategy evaluations and assessments. For example, the Second Line of Defense program strategic review resulted in adjustments of program scope and priorities and the Highly Enriched Uranium (HEU) Reconciliation report identified additional nuclear materials for potential removal or elimination.","National Nuclear Security Administration","Last year, agencies were required to review progress made toward strategic objectives using the agency Strategic Plan, and release summary results on Performance.gov in February 2015. The agency’s strategic review considers performance goals and other evidence, as well as challenges, risks, and external factors that may have affected the outcomes. OMB works with agencies to determine which strategic objectives require focused improvement or noteworthy progress relative to other strategic objectives. Because the Department of Energy released their strategic plan late in 2014, the Department did not complete a strategic review in 2014, but is expected to conduct the review in the future.","National Defense",3722,"FY14-15 : Continue to make progress toward securing the most vulnerable nuclear materials worldwide.","In his April 2009 Prague speech, President Obama stated that “we must ensure that terrorists never acquire a nuclear weapon. This is the most immediate and extreme threat to global security. One terrorist with one nuclear weapon could unleash massive destruction. Al Qaeda has said it seeks a bomb and that it would have no problem with using it. And we know that there is unsecured nuclear material across the globe. To protect our people, we must act with a sense of purpose without delay. So today I am announcing a new international effort to secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world within four years. We will set new standards, expand our cooperation with Russia, pursue new partnerships to lock down these sensitive materials.” The Joint Statement from the Moscow Summit between Presidents Obama and Medvedev in July 2009, the September 2009 United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution 1887, and the Nuclear Security Summits in April 2010 and March 2012, reinforce that this is a pressing global security issue. Key Challenges include: • Host country’s commitment to implement and sustain their nuclear security/removal activities. • Additional agreements need to be negotiated with foreign governments before all work can be completed as planned. Stakeholder Engagement: The Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) works with other U.S. government agencies, multilateral institutions, foreign governments, and commercial contractors. Policy issues are coordinated with the National Security Council and the Department of State. NNSA nonproliferation programs maintain close coordination with the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Department of Defense's Cooperative Threat Reduction Agency. This priority goal supports the nuclear security strategic goal and the strategic objective to reduce goal nuclear security threats."
