"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Transportation",21,DOT,"Economic Competitiveness",5252,5292,"EXPAND ACCESS TO FOREIGN MARKETS","Increase access to foreign markets by eliminating transportation-related barriers to international trade through Federal investments in transportation infrastructure, international trade and investment negotiations, and global transportation initiatives and cooperative research thereby providing additional opportunities for American business and creating export-related jobs.","The recent trend towards more international movement of people and goods and globalization of markets is expected to continue.  This means that there will be continued growth in international air traffic and more goods and services transported from within the country to ports and then across national borders. We will focus on creating new opportunities in foreign markets for U.S. transportation-related goods and services.  We will continue our efforts to create a more competitive air transportation system and protect the rights of traveling consumers. We will advance U.S. economic interests in targeted markets abroad in order to create additional transportation-related jobs. We set standards for both the manufacture and operation of transportation products. American transport manufacturers and service providers rely on access to foreign markets through liberalized entry or operational rules and compatible technical standards. We exert extensive positive influence over international transportation development as well as to heighten U.S. competitiveness. Through the development of a National Freight Strategic Plan pursuant to MAP-21, we will also focus transportation infrastructure investments on projects that will particularly benefit U.S. exports.",,"In Calendar year 2015, DOT concluded new air service agreements with Azerbaijan, Cote d’Ivoire, Mexico, Serbia and Ukraine that improved market access for U.S. air carriers.  ","International Affairs||Transportation",,,
