"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Energy",19,DOE,"Management and Performance",5312,5382,"Attract, Manage, Train, and Retain the Best Federal Workforce","Attract, manage, train, and retain the best federal workforce to meet future mission needs","DOE faces serious workforce challenges over the coming decade, with 15-25% of its federal employees projected to retire, including many of its most experienced and highly skilled professionals. To meet these challenges, the Department must engage in workforce planning and improve its outreach and recruitment programs in order to maintain a federal workforce with the technical skills and experience required to accomplish its science-driven missions. The Department must also significantly improve the quality and efficiency of its human resource operations. DOE is committed to improving human capital policies, programs, and systems through a corporate approach that reduces organizational redundancies and uses capable and cost-effective information technology systems. Since implementation of the President’s Hiring Reform initiatives in FY 2010, the recruitment process for general schedule positions has been reduced from an average 174 days in FY 2009 to 97 days in FY 2013. Efforts are also underway to improve hiring quality and on-boarding processes and outcomes, with a continued focus on promoting diversity and inclusion within the workforce. There are plans to implement a strategy for leadership development across all levels of the organization. Skill gaps will be addressed by using such tools as employee skill assessments and individual development plans. Employee accountability will be addressed through employee performance plans and organizational annual action plans resulting from employee surveys. DOE will also advance its Women in Clean Energy, and Minorities in Energy programs to draw upon the entire American talent pool.","Chief Human Capital Officer","Last year, agencies were required to review progress made toward strategic objectives using the agency Strategic Plan, and release summary results on Performance.gov in February 2015. The agency’s strategic review considers performance goals and other evidence, as well as challenges, risks, and external factors that may have affected the outcomes. OMB works with agencies to determine which strategic objectives require focused improvement or noteworthy progress relative to other strategic objectives. Because the Department of Energy released their strategic plan late in 2014, the Department did not complete a strategic review in 2014, but is expected to conduct the review in the future.",Management,,,
