"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Homeland Security",24,DHS,"Mission 4:  Safeguard and Secure Cyberspace",5432,5452,"Goal 4.2:  Secure the Federal Civilian Government Information Technology Enterprise","Secure the Federal Civilian Government Information Technology Enterprise","The Federal Government provides essential services and information on which many Americans rely. Not only must the government protect its own networks, it must serve as a role model to others in implementing security services. DHS itself plays a leading role in securing federal civilian networks, allowing the Federal Government to do its business securely. DHS partners with agencies to deploy products such as the EINSTEIN set of capabilities that provide perimeter network-based intrusion detection and prevention.  We will pursue the following strategies to secure the federal civilian government information technology enterprise:   	Coordinate government purchasing of cyber technology to enhance cost-effectiveness by using strategically sourced tools and services such as the Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation program. 	Equip civilian government networks with innovative cybersecurity tools, information, and protections by supporting research and development and making the innovations from research and development available not only to the Federal Government but widely available across the public and private spheres. 	Ensure government-wide policy and standards are consistently and effectively implemented and measured by promoting the adoption of enterprise-wide policy and best practices and working with interagency partners to develop government-wide requirements that can bring the full strength of the market to bear on existing and emergent vulnerabilities.",,"The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has determined that performance toward this goal is making satisfactory progress.  Introduction The Federal Government provides essential services and information on which many Americans rely.  Not only must the government protect its own networks, it must serve as a role model to others in implementing security services.  DHS itself plays a leading role in securing federal civilian networks, allowing the Federal Government to do its business securely.   Major Achievements Among our successes, the Continuous Diagnostics & Mitigation (CDM) program significantly improved initial operating capacity, and the Chief Information Officer (CIO) team conducted extensive engagements with stakeholders and partners across the federal civilian government to increase CIO’s knowledge on the cybersecurity services available to them by DHS and to foster collaboration and coordination.   As of December 31, 2014, DHS reached a total of 62 signed Memoranda of Agreement (covering all 23 non-defense Chief Financial Officer Act agencies in addition to 40 small/micro agencies and the U.S. Postal Service) to permit DHS to provide the full suite of EINSTEIN program capabilities for internet security situational awareness.  The EINSTEIN Program is an automated process for collecting, correlating, analyzing, and sharing computer security information across the Federal civilian government so that federal agencies will be aware of the threats to their infrastructure in nearly  real-time and can act swiftly to take corrective measures.  DHS increased EINSTEIN 2 coverage to 79 departments or agencies, including 18 of 18 .gov Trusted Internet Connection Access Providers.  DHS also established intrusion prevention services with two additional internet service providers (ISPs), putting three “Tier 1” critical ISP Intrusion Prevention Security Service contracts in place.  DHS deployed Einstein 3 Accelerated capabilities to one ISP, providing the capacity to protect 500,000 federal users from malicious e-mail attacks (such as e-mail-initiated spear phishing campaigns) or malware installed on .gov networks from communicating with external entities attempting to control that malware.   As of December 31, 2014, CIO increased the number of required Personal Identification Verification (PIV) card users to authenticate to a DHS network from 16 percent to 84 percent.  DHS CIO also designed and hosted the first Small and Micro Agency Cybersecurity Support Workshop, providing information to small agency Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs) and CIOs on the cybersecurity services available to them through DHS.  Through outreach activities, DHS was able to receive all Secured Content Automation Protocol (SCAP) feeds from the departments/agencies for the first time.  This effort also included a Performance Analysis Console which was implemented within CyberScope that includes vulnerability risk scoring charts on Agencies’ Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and SCAP submissions over periods of time, furthering our understanding of risk through data.  Major Challenges & Opportunities for Improvement Executive Order13691, Promoting Private Sector Cybersecurity Information Sharing, granted DHS authorities in developing a unique standards organization for information sharing.  DHS has an opportunity to collaborate with both public and private sector partners to increase the exchange of threat information beyond the current capabilities by creating a common set of standards to govern the creation and function of Information Sharing Analysis Organizations.  Deploying our technical tools can present a challenge as CDM will not operate at full capacity until the sensors are fully installed at participating agencies and the Federal dashboard is operational.  In addition, the interpretation of the implementation of HSPD-12 Mandatory PIV varies from agency-to-agency across government, creating a disparity when results are rolled up.","National Defense",71151,"FY16-17 : Improve Federal Network Security","The 2014 Quadrennial Homeland Security Review and the FY14-18 DHS Strategic Plan recognizes the continuing need to secure the federal civilian executive branch agencies’ information technology (IT) networks and systems.  By law, each head of a federal department or agency is primarily responsible for their agency’s own cybersecurity. The Department of Homeland Security has overall responsibility for protecting federal civilian executive branch systems from cyber threats, helping agencies better defend themselves, and providing response teams to assist agencies during significant incidents. There is no one “silver bullet” for cybersecurity. The key is to install multiple layers of protection to best secure federal networks.  DHS’s National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) is the U.S. government’s 24/7 hub for cybersecurity information sharing, incident response and coordination. The NCCIC shares information on cyber threats and incidents, and provides on-site assistance to victims of cyberattacks. The NCCIC is also where DHS manages the EINSTEIN system, the first basic layer of protection DHS provides at the network perimeter of each federal civilian executive branch agency.  While there are three parts to the EINSTEIN set of capabilities, the focus is currently on the deployment of the third phase, known as EINSTEIN 3 Accelerated (E3A), which has the capacity to identify and block known malicious traffic.   DHS also helps federal agencies identify and fix problems inside their networks in near real-time using the Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation program (CDM). Once fully deployed, CDM will constantly scan agency networks for vulnerabilities that bad actors could exploit if they did breach an agency’s perimeter.  The CDM Program consists of three phases that are currently in various stages of availability to federal civilian executive branch agencies.  The first phase of CDM focuses on “What is on the Network,” specifically asset management. This includes hardware and software assets, managing configuration settings, and vulnerabilities, all of which are foundational capabilities to protect systems and data. Phase 2 (“Who is on the Network”) covers user account and network privilege management; and Phase 3 (“What is Happening on the Network”) covers boundary protection,  event management and  security lifecycle management. As of October 1, 2015, DHS has delivered the first phase of CDM to the 23 civilian Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Act agencies, covering 97 percent of the federal civilian Executive Branch government.  These agencies are expected to deploy these CDM tools on their networks within the fiscal year. Information sharing is also fundamental to achieving cybersecurity.  The NCCIC shares information on cyber threats, vulnerabilities and incidents.  In order to sufficiently address the rapidly evolving threats to our cyber systems, DHS and its partners must move beyond information sharing methods that are overly reliant on manual processes to be able to share cyber information in as close to real-time as possible.  DHS is pursuing an aggressive schedule to deploy one of its next-generation information sharing techniques. The Department has an automated system in place to share cyber threat indicators, and DHS will extend this capability across the federal government and to the private sector, so that the larger community can send and receive threat indicators in near real-time. This goal aligns with Administration cybersecurity priorities. The goal was established in coordination with OMB policies and guidance, to include the Cybersecurity Strategy and Implementation Plan (CSIP), the Fiscal Year 2015-2016 Guidance on Federal Information Security and Privacy Management Requirements, and the Cybersecurity CAP goal.  "
