"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Education",18,ED,"Elementary and Secondary Education",500,624,"Effective Teachers and Strong Leaders","Improve the preparation, recruitment, retention, development, support, evaluation, recognition, and equitable distribution of effective teachers and leaders.[1]        [1] States with approved ESEA Flexibility requests were initially required to implement teacher and principal evaluation and support systems by 2014–15 or 2015–16, depending on the school year of initial approval. Through ESEA Flexibility renewal in fall 2014, the Department committed to working with states that need to make adjustments to implementation timelines or sequencing through the ESEA Flexibility renewal process.",,"Office of Elementary and Secondary Education","Over the past several years, states and school districts have made educator effectiveness a key priority in their reform efforts. States and districts are working on the development and implementation of high-quality teacher and principal evaluation and support systems, as well as broader human capital management systems that use the results of evaluation systems to inform targeted educator development and support opportunities, placement, retention, promotion, compensation, and other personnel decisions. The Department has supported the work of states and districts in this area through key programs and initiatives such as Title I, Title II, RTT, Teacher Incentive Fund, ESEA Flexibility, Excellent Educators for All, and the Comprehensive Center on Great Teachers and Leaders (in addition to the other regional and content comprehensive centers), and using these programs and initiatives to provide resources and technical assistance to states and districts so that they can move forward with successful implementation. In 2015, more states and districts are implementing teacher and principal evaluation and support systems that are based on multiple measures, including evidence of student learning growth as a significant factor.  Similar to objective 2.1, the results of this metric are greatly influenced by state and district actions, as well as other factors not in the Department’s control. As teacher and school leader evaluation and support systems are governed by state and local policies, without revisions in state policies and new partnerships with teacher and principal organizations, reforms of existing evaluation and support systems are unlikely to be successful.","Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services",4281,"FY14-15 : Improve learning by ensuring that more students have effective teachers and leaders","GOAL OVERVIEW The goal is based on the premise, supported by abundant research, that teachers are the single most critical in-school factor in improving student achievement.  Principals are often cited as the second most influential in-school factor.  Teacher and principal evaluation and support systems supported by the Department of Education's (ED) contributing programs enable the development and identification of effective educators and provide needed information to improve the educator workforce.  Teachers and principals often lack meaningful evaluation, feedback, and support for professional growth. Indeed, teachers are often dissatisfied with their preparation programs and their opportunities for professional development and advancement. Too often, effective teachers and leaders are not recognized, rewarded, or asked to share their expertise with colleagues. Most teacher compensation systems do not recognize effectiveness or provide incentives to teach in challenging schools or shortage areas. And race and family income too often predict a child’s access to excellent educators. In light of the importance of teachers and school leadership for student success, the nation has to do more to ensure that every student has an effective teacher, every school has an effective leader, and every teacher and leader has access to the preparation, on-going support, recognition, and collaboration opportunities he or she needs to succeed. ED will help strengthen the profession by focusing on meaningful feedback, support, and incentives at every stage of a career, based on fair evaluation and support systems that look at multiple measures, including, in significant part, growth in student learning. ED will support state and district efforts that provide time for teacher collaboration, personalized on-the-job learning opportunities, and professional advancement. Targets are based on state implementation timelines provided through original Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) flexibility requests.  These timelines indicated that 37 states expected to implement the systems by September 30, 2015.  “Fully implemented” is defined as the school year in which teachers and principals receive effectiveness ratings.  However, as states and districts are moving forward, they are also encountering challenges with implementation of these systems, and are making adjustments to timelines, sequencing, and implementation steps that may not follow their original plans but will ultimately result in high-quality teacher and principal evaluation and support systems.   KEY BARRIERS AND CHALLENGES ED will support states in the development and adoption of state requirements for comprehensive teacher and principal evaluation and support systems and in district development and implementation of comprehensive educator evaluation and support systems. Providing additional support to teachers and principals, as well as educator evaluators regarding these new evaluation and support systems is necessary so they are able, for example, to use and develop learning objectives to measure growth in student learning and to implement new classroom observation tools.  However, providing this level of support is also resource-intense at both the state educational agency (SEA) and local educational agency (LEA) level.  Additional challenges center on maintaining momentum for reform, given districts’ and states’ current political situations, potential changes in leadership, ongoing development of valid and reliable measures of growth in student learning in non-tested grades and subjects, and the scaling up of systems in a relatively short time frame.   EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Engagement of external stakeholders is regular and ongoing.  Program staff have regular contact with SEA staff through monitoring, technical assistance, and other outreach.  Policy and program staff regularly hold calls and travel to the Hill to brief member and committee staff.  ED has also engaged with and provided briefings for key external educational organizations, including the Council of Chief State School Officers, the National Governors Association, National Education Association, and American Federation of Teachers.  Ongoing outreach further involves a wide range of professional and content organizations, national community-based organizations, and foundations."
