"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Education",18,ED,"Continuous Improvement of the U.S. Education System",503,633,"Data Systems and Transparency","Facilitate the development of interoperable longitudinal data systems for early learning through employment to enable data-driven, transparent decision-making by increasing access to timely, reliable, and high-value data.",,"Institute of Education Sciences","The Department continues to focus upon providing technical assistance to the field to support the development and use of longitudinal data systems that serve the education needs of the states. In recent years a core focus for this work has been upon implementing and sustaining connections that span the complete student lifecycle. The SLDS grant program works with a State Support Team (SST) of experienced government and industry experts in the area of data systems development, connection and maintenance. The technical assistance provided by the SST is available to all states, not only to active grantees of the SLDS grant program. This level of support has enabled better conversations across states, sharing of both technical and business process best practices, and helped bring to life the number of new K-12 and postsecondary to workforce connections and P–12 to early childhood data connections that surpassed our targets for FY 2015 on both metrics.  Collaboration is key to the success of this objective. SLDS staff work frequently with other Department programs, including the ELC, as well as coordinating with Department of Labor’s Workforce Data Quality Information program. The Department continues to collaborate with technical experts, standards organizations and key stakeholders in the maintenance, enhancement and roll-out of CEDS. In FY 2015, in addition to successfully completing a new grant round and awarding 16 new SLDS grants to support collaborative data uses, a new contract was awarded to support CEDS enhancements, tools and uses over the next two years. States, postsecondary institutions and independent research groups continue to use the online CEDS tools to map their data systems, data uses and data models to CEDS.  The Department continues to model the transparency we are working to develop in the field by updating and expanding the ED Data Inventory. While work to improve the functionality and connections of the ED Data Inventory system have stalled due to budgetary limitations, the work to improve and enhance the Inventory’s content continues to move forward. Collections and reports from Department programs within seven different Principal Office Components are now represented in the Inventory. This resulted in 74 distinct publicly available datasets across the Department being connected to an Inventory entry. The Inventory continues to provide source information to data.gov on a regular basis.","Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services",,,
