"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Health and Human Services",9,HHS,"Strengthen Health Care",529,669,"Make coverage more secure for those who have insurance, and extend affordable coverage to the uninsured","Make coverage more secure for those who have insurance, and extend affordable coverage to the uninsured","HHS is securing and extending health insurance by implementing provisions created by the Affordable Care Act such as working with states to set up health insurance exchanges, expanding Medicaid coverage to low-income Americans, and prohibiting insurance companies from dropping people when they get sick.","Office of the Secretary","Please note that this section summarizes the result of the FY 2014 HHS Strategic Review process, limiting the scope of content to that available prior to spring of 2015.  Due to this constraint, the following may not be the most current information available.  Conclusions:      Noteworthy Progress  Analysis:  At the time of this review, HHS has made significant progress in a short amount of time toward our objective to extend affordable coverage to the uninsured.  Since the enactment of the Affordable Care Act, nearly 18 million Americans have gained coverage.  In part due to the affordable coverage available through Marketplace, the uninsured rate among nonelderly adults has declined by more than seven percentage points since the beginning of open enrollment in 2013.  This huge increase in coverage comes along with other significant improvements and policy developments including changes in application, verification, eligibility determination, coordination, and renewal of coverage, as well as expansion of Medicaid.  In particular, the single, streamlined application for all insurance affordability programs has allowed consumers a more coordinated and consistent process for obtaining coverage.   Coverage has not only expanded to more people but it has also become more secure for beneficiaries, particularly those who have Medicaid and CHIP, due to the development of regulations that ensure these beneficiaries remain enrolled in coverage for as long as they are eligible.  In addition, consumers have also gained broader access to coverage – at least one issuer offered coverage in each service area of the Marketplaces, ensuring that all consumers would have qualified health plan access.  HHS will continue to work to secure coverage for hard-to-reach populations.  Now that a significant number of previously uninsured individuals have enrolled in health coverage programs, growing total enrollment further will require the Department to update its previous tactics, as the remaining uninsured are often hard-to-reach.  Additional content and sample size increase was achieved for FYs 2014 and 2015 for the National Health Interview Survey, although not to the level that could have been achieved with the full Prevention and Public Health Fund request.  The uncertainty of the availability of these funds impacts HHS’ ability to effectively plan for inclusion of the additional sample and content on the 2017 survey.  HHS will also continue to explore ways to promote a full continuum of behavioral health services as part of Qualified Health Plans.  HHS is exploring opportunities to update and improve performance indicators for this strategic objective.  HHS will work to improve the customer experience by examining Call Center staffing options and starting open enrollment with better data personalization in emails so that consumers have the most helpful information.  HHS will work with state-based Marketplaces to move from current workarounds to improve the efficiency of their application, verification, and renewal of policies.    ",Health||Medicare,,,
