"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Health and Human Services",9,HHS,"Strengthen Health Care",529,670,"Improve healthcare quality and patient safety","Improve healthcare quality and patient safety.","HHS is improving healthcare quality and patient safety by developing physician- and hospital-quality reporting systems that link payments to the quality and efficiency of care and initiating a bundled-payment system that will align payments for services delivered across an episode of care, such as a heart bypass or hip replacement, rather than paying for services separately. HHS is also reducing healthcare-associated infections, adverse drug events, and other complications of healthcare delivery through quality and safety promotion efforts.","Office of the Secretary","Please note that this section summarizes the result of the FY 2014 HHS Strategic Review process, limiting the scope of content to that available prior to spring of 2015.  Due to this constraint, the following may not be the most current information available.  Conclusions:      Progressing  Analysis:   HHS continues to make progress in strengthening health care by guiding and supporting national efforts to improve health care quality and patient safety, but opportunities for improvement remain, and the need for this work continues.  Health care quality and disparities have improved in some areas, but additional focus and attention are necessary in order to achieve improvements in many other areas.  Though the rate of uninsurance among adults 18-64 substantially decreased, racial differences in rates persist.   Federal efforts that provide local support for health care quality and patient safety improvement seem to be yielding some of the most impactful results.  An initiative to improve dementia care and reduce antipsychotic medication use in nursing homes has reduced antipsychotic use for long-stay nursing home residents by 15.1 percent from the fourth quarter of 2011 to the end of 2013.  Quality improvement efforts have resulted in some sites reporting statistically significant reductions in avoidable hospital readmissions and hospital-acquired conditions.  Quality Innovation Network-Quality Improvement Organizations worked with hospitals across the country that reported high rates of central-line blood stream infections and catheter-associated urinary tract infections, results showed a 53 percent relative improvement rate.  Patient safety and quality improvement efforts ranging from the local to the national level require valid, standard measures and efficient systems for collecting information about patient safety and quality.  For example, CDC is developing guidelines for opioid prescribing for chronic pain outside the setting of end-of-life care; and ONC is exploring ways to convert these guidelines into health IT-enabled clinical decision support interventions.  While progressing, the fact that in 2013 patients are still impacted at a rate of 121 hospital-acquired conditions per 1,000 discharges highlights the need for continued diligence in making health care safer.  The shifting landscape in clinical quality measurement, including the drive to develop composite measures, measure relationship between value and cost, and capture the patient experience, continues to be a challenge.  In addition, automating quality measurement to improve efficiency and drive improvement was identified as a challenge.  Further, clinical quality measurement can be more challenging in rural communities because data collection is based on a small volume of patients.  Highlighting the importance or patient safety, the Department is in the process of implementing a priority goal related to combating opioid abuse as well as antibiotic stewardship in multiple health care settings.",Health,374,"FY14-15 : Improve patient safety.","At any given time, about one in every 25 hospitalized patients has a healthcare-associated infection while over 1 million HAIs occur across the U.S. healthcare system every year. These infections can lead to significant morbidity and mortality, with tens of thousands of lives lost each year. Of these hospital-acquired events, catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CAUTI) are among the most common. Research has shown that a significant portion of these infections can be prevented, avoiding patient morbidity and mortality from this HAI while reducing costs accrued to the healthcare system. The HAI Agency Priority Goal is to reduce the national rate of HAI by demonstrating significant, quantitative and measurable reductions in hospital-acquired CAUTI. As such; the FY2014-15 HAI Agency Priority Goal (APG) is to reduce the national CAUTI standardized infection ratio by 10% by September 2015 over the current 2012 baseline of 1.03. Of note, this SIR baseline was changed from 1.02 to 1.03 in this goal. This reflects the fact that the CDC released preliminary final numbers for 2012 in September 2013, the time at which this goal was written. However, hospitals still had through the end of the year to report final data to NHSN. Accounting for the last three months of data submitted by some hospitals caused a slight adjustment in the final (and thus baseline) 2012 SIR from 1.02 to 1.03. We make this adjustment in the HAI.APG to reflect the finalized SIR and to maintain consistency with other HAI reports moving forward. As we carry this portion of the goal from the FY2011-13 goal, a concerted effort between the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and Office of the Assistant Secretary of Health (OASH) will continue to be a crucial to meeting goal targets. The main US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) operating divisions that constitute this workgroup will focus on applying their HAI programmatic efforts in a way that aligns strategy and metrics, provides consistent messaging to its audience, uses data to target those facilities in most need of improvement, and creates synergy to achieve CAUTI reduction outcomes. We will continue to use combined HHS programmatic levers to contribute to the achievement of CAUTI targets. These initiatives include: Quality Improvement Organization (QIOs) Program Hospital Inpatient Quality Reporting (HIQR) Program Disseminating Data for Action using the  National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) State HAI programs Partnership for Patients (PfP) Comprehensive Unit-based Safety Program (CUSP) for CAUTI Ongoing coordination through HAI strategic planning, HAI Regional and National Meetings Regular review and updates to the National Action Plan to prevent HAIs: ""Roadmap to Elimination."" Attention to several factors are necessary to assess progress toward goals in this new period. As in the previous HAI goal and consistent with a measurement strategy used by a majority of hospitals that participate in national HAI reporting initiatives, this goal will use the standardized infection ratio (SIR) as the measure, NHSN, the CDC-run infection surveillance system as the primary data source and report data points on  a biannual basis. A six month lag in data will remain in order to ensure the most complete and accurate data being reported out and minimize statistically insignificant variations in the data. Lessons learned from the previous goal allow us to predict potential changes in the CAUTI SIR trend in the months following January 2015 now that CMS' Hospital Inpatient Quality Reporting (HIQR)  program requires participating hospitals to report CAUTI in non-intensive care units to receive their full annual payment update. The influx of new CAUTI reporters in the middle of the previous 2011-13 HAI.APG was identified as one but not the sole, etiology behind an increase in the CAUTI SIR over the life of this goal. The differences in CAUTI SIRs in ICU and non-ICU settings along with the influx of new reporters among non-ICU locations in 2015 may impact this goal. The degree to which this could again be a factor again is unknown especially since through programmatic outreach, many hospitals already report non-ICU CAUTI data to NHSN voluntarily. We also anticipate application of the new CAUTI definition, which went into effect January 1, 2015, to the APG data we will report in subsequent quarters. Because our baseline CAUTI SIR was calculated using the old CAUTI definition, a strategy to ensure continuity and validity of new SIR data across this goal has been established. The CDC will construct a new SIR by applying the new CAUTI definition to our current baseline SIR and data points proceeding January 1, 2015. In other words, we will translate SIR data including our baseline data prior to January 1st to SIR data that is reflective of the changes in the CAUTI definition. We will also be able to illustrate the CAUTI SIR baseline and trending data by applying the new vs the old definition in order to demonstrate the degree of difference or lack thereof resulting from this definitional change. CDC has changed the CAUTI definition in response to input from stakeholders and scientific data.The HAI Workgroup will present full details on the definition change in relation to this goal and our targeted CAUTI SIR reductions to HHS leadership in November of 2015. Lastly, analysis of the CAUTI data continues to reveal marked difference in reductions between intensive care and non-intensive care units. Intensive care units have significantly higher SIRs, higher number of catheter-days, and show less reductions in these indicators of progress than in the non ICU setting. The difference in CAUTI reductions between ICUs and non-ICU settings have been highlighted in analysis of both NHSN and CUSP for CAUTI data. Given the fact that sicker patients are admitted in ICUs, retaining a urinary catheter for  longer may be a rooted in practice necessity or  provider belief that it is a necessity and so concentrating on behavioral and systems process change may need to be further emphasized as we  work in this setting to reduce CAUTI. The 10% goal for CAUTI reduction in this APG effort represents a composite goal that reflects greater reductions in non-ICU settings and lesser reductions in ICUs. Improvements in CAUTI however, have been demonstrated in large scale improvement programs when actively engaged in embedding evidence-based infection control protocol and a culture of safety unit and facility-wide. It’s also important to note that preliminary projections through the first three quarters of 2015 continue to show a fall in the CAUTI SIR and an on-track trajectory for achieving the CAUTI goal target."
