"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Health and Human Services",9,HHS,"Advance the Health, Safety, and Well-Being of the American People",531,682,"Promote economic and social well-being for individuals, families and communities","Promote economic and social well-being for individuals, families and communities","HHS agencies work together and collaborate across Federal departments to maximize the potential benefits of various programs, services, and policies designed to improve the well-being of individuals, families, and communities. Many HHS agencies fund essential human services to those who are least able to help themselves, often through the Department’s state, local, and tribal partners.","Office of the Secretary","Please note that this section summarizes the result of the FY 2014 HHS Strategic Review process, limiting the scope of content to that available prior to spring of 2015.  Due to this constraint, the following may not be the most current information available.  Conclusion:  Progressing  Analysis:  Strong individuals, families, and communities are the building blocks for a strong America.  Promoting economic and social well-being requires attention to a complex set of factors.  With its partners, HHS is working to provide a path of opportunity to help families leave poverty, to enter the middle class, and to revitalize communities.  While some progress has been made on this Strategic Objective more could be done.  There are significant challenges of HHS work in this area.  One challenge is that many of the factors that influence economic and social well-being are out of HHS's control (i.e. the economy and the availability of jobs that pay a family-supporting wage).  Another is the nature of block grants and the variation in the programs that are implemented at the state and local level.   Recent accomplishments include work expanding knowledge about effective programs to promote employment, family economic security, and child and family well-being.  HHS has partnered with the Department of Labor to encourage the use of Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) and the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) funds to support subsidized employment programs, including summer youth employment, as a pathway to unsubsidized employment and economic security.  In addition, HHS collaborated with the Departments of Labor and Education on WIOA guidance and technical assistance, as well as to encourage engagement of human services agencies in WIOA implementation to help ensure that TANF and CSBG participants and other individuals with significant employment barriers are well served in the one-stop system.    HHS continued to make progress in supporting the prevention of, and effective intervention into, abuse, neglect, and exploitation of older adults and adults with disabilities.  The Lifespan Respite Program in cooperation with ARCH National Respite Network and Resource Center completed and disseminated a document entitled Measuring Systems Change and Consumer Outcomes: Recommendations for Developing Performance Metrics for State Lifespan Respite Programs.  This document can serve as a guide to developing Lifespan Respite Programs for how to measure performance of new and developing programs for family caregivers across the lifespan.   Performance data shows that HHS criminal justice related programs are effective in improving the lives of participants.  The drug court program served 7,357 individuals in 2014.  The percentage of those receiving services that were employed or engaged in productive activities increased to 55.8 percent compared to 34.7 percent at intake.  The percentage of individuals receiving services who had a permanent place to live in the community increased to 40.8 percent compared to 29.5 percent at intake.  The percentage of adults receiving services who had no past month substance use increased to 81.9 percent compared to 50.2 percent at intake.  Though HHS is working to increase economic and social well-being, there are many influences outside of HHS’s control.  For example, the TANF program has not been fully reauthorized in many years.  The flexibility that is inherent in TANF as a block grant has enabled states to use their TANF dollars in a variety of ways, including filling budget gaps for human services programs that are not part of their welfare program.  In FY 2013, states spent less than 30 percent of their federal TANF and state maintenance-of-effort dollars on cash assistance to families and only six percent on work activities.  Further, between 1995 and 2011, the share of eligible families receiving TANF declined from 84 percent to 34 percent.  Another challenging example is adult protective services (APS) which are state-based systems and which can vary widely across states.  A number of challenges exist that impede the Department’s ability to achieve the biggest impact with program efforts to address abuse neglect and exploitation of older adults and adults with disabilities.  There is a lack of information about the risk and protective factors for being a victim or perpetrator of abuse.  In addition, there is a lack of information about effective and evidence-based prevention, intervention, and remediation practices.  The Department continues to provide intensive technical assistance oriented towards strengthening TANF programs to create better outcomes for families.  TANF administrators and state commissioners/secretaries will meet to explore how state TANF programs can more effectively assist parents in their efforts to achieve economic security in a 21st century economy, while also supporting child and family well-being.  The first report of data submitted using the National Adult Maltreatment Reporting System (NAMRS) is expected by June, 2017.  This report will be the first systematic look at the experience of abuse, neglect, and exploitation of older adults and adults with disabilities, as reported to state Adult Protective Service programs across multiple states.","Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services||Community and Regional Development||Income Security",432,"FY14-15 : Improve the quality of early childhood education.","This Priority Goal calls for actions in FY 2014 and FY 2015 to improve the quality of early childhood education programs for low-income children.  For the ACF Child Care program, the goal is to increase the number of states with Quality Rating and Improvement Systems (QRIS) that meet the seven high quality benchmarks for child care and other early childhood programs, developed by HHS.  QRIS is a mechanism by which to improve the quality of child care available in communities and increase parents’ knowledge and understanding of the child care options available to them.  In order for a QRIS to be considered as meeting high-quality benchmarks, it must 1) be statewide; 2) be eligible to child care centers and family child care homes; 3) include quality improvement indicators that cover learning environments and curriculum, teacher/practitioner standards, and family partnerships and strengthening; 4) use training or on-site consultation to help child care programs attain or maintain quality improvement standards beyond licensing; 5) offer financial incentives for maintaining or increasing quality to child care centers and family child care homes; 6) include quality assessments of child care centers and family child care homes; and 7) use symbols or simple icons that indicate levels of quality as part of resource and referral/consumer education services to parents seeking child care.  For FY 2011, a baseline of 17 states had implemented a QRIS that met all outlined high quality benchmarks.  The baseline was calculated using FY 2012-2013 State Plans that were submitted in September 2011.  In FY 2014, 29 states had a QRIS that met high quality benchmarks, meeting the previously established target.  States expanded from pilot programs to statewide-systems and increased availability to quality information, leading them to meet more components of the QRIS measure. States were also supported by targeted technical assistance through state specific benchmarks and goals.  The FY 2014 results show that states continue to make progress toward implementing QRIS that meet high-quality benchmarks, and the ACF Office of Child Care (OCC) has established a target of 32 states for FY 2015. Currently, many states meet some, but not all seven, of the outlined benchmarks. States are making significant progress toward implementing a comprehensive QRIS that meets all outlined quality benchmarks; however, their progress is masked by the single figure reported. To provide a more complete picture of QRIS implementation and improvements across the country, OCC is closely tracking the progress of states that may not meet all quality benchmarks, but that have demonstrated improvements by increasing the number of benchmarks reached.  For example, as of FY 2014, at least six states have incorporated six quality benchmarks and at least six states have incorporated five quality benchmarks.  Between FY 2011 and FY 2014, 27 states and territories have made progress on at least one of the components of the measure.  In addition, targeted technical assistance provided by the new National Center on Early Childhood Quality Assurance, as well as other technical assistance partners funded by ACF, will continue to help states work toward their goal of improving their QRIS. Also as part of this Priority Goal, the ACF Office of Head Start (OHS) is striving to increase the percentage of Head Start children in high quality classrooms. Progress is measured by reducing the proportion of Head Start grantees scoring in the low range in any domain of the Classroom Assessment Scoring System (CLASS: Pre-K). This research-based tool measures teacher-child interaction on a seven-point scale in three broad domains: Emotional Support, Classroom Organization, and Instructional Support.   OHS successfully began data collection using random samples for the CLASS: Pre-K in the first quarter of FY 2012.  Analysis of the full data set of CLASS scores for the cohort of 388 Head Start grantees that received on-site monitoring in the 2011-2012 Head Start “school year” occurred in October of 2012, and OHS established a baseline of 25 percent scoring in the low range. An analysis of CLASS scores for the most recent cohort of 404 Head Start grantees that received on-site monitoring in the 2013-2014 Head Start “school year” (FY 2014 actual result) indicates that 23 percent of grantees scored in the low range, thus meeting the target of 27 percent.  All grantees scoring in the low range (below 2.5) in FY 2014 did so for the Instructional Support domain.  (Nationwide for the CLASS: Pre-K tool, scores are typically higher in the domains of Emotional Support and Classroom Organization than in the domain of Instructional Support.) The FY 2014 result is a signicant improvement relative to the previous FY 2013 result, when the number of grantees scoring below a 2.5 was 31 percent.  In response to the data from the FY 2013 CLASS reviews, OHS developed a system to provide more intentional targeted assistance to those grantees that score in the low range on CLASS.  OHS is continuing to flag grantees that score in the low range, conduct more analyses on the specific dimension level, which are specific elements or skill areas within each of the three domains, and providing periodic reports to its Regional Offices so they can direct their TTA to specific grantees.  For example, concept development, quality of feedback, and language modeling are the three dimensions within the domain of Instructional Support.  Providing TTA at the more specific dimension-level supports grantees to focus in on the skills that need improvement. There are some challenges to making progress in these areas.  In the past two decades, a growing body of evidence has established the importance of quality child care in promoting healthy child development and school readiness and success for children.  However, systemic changes take time to implement, and states are at different starting points.  In the FY 2016 Budget request to Congress, the President continued to build a continuum of high-quality early childhood programs, including proposing an historic investment of $82 billion over 10 years to increase the availability of high-quality child care for children under four years old.  On November 19, 2014, the President signed into the law the first statutory reauthorization of the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) program since 1996, which aims to move children receiving subsidies into high-quality child care settings.  Among a comprehensive array of reforms, the new statute includes an increased focus on improving the quality of child care through systemic quality investments, which will help move states toward meeting this priority performance goal. In addition, the statute includes provisions requiring states to evaluate the measurable outcomes of their quality improvement activities. OCC is gathering information about QRIS implementation through the CCDBG Plan and the annual quality performance report, as well as providing states with targeted technical assistance through state specific technical assistance plans and goals.  ACF recently announced the Early Childhood Training and Technical Assistance System, which transforms the current TA system for child care, T/TA for Head Start, and related programs into a coordinated system that will provide training, resources and materials to multiple stakeholder groups at regional, state and local levels to support school readiness.  The new National Center on Early Childhood Quality Assurance will help OCC continue to support the infrastructure of an early childhood education quality improvement framework, including QRIS.         Additionally, with respect to Head Start, there are 50,000 Head Start and Early Head Start classrooms across the country in diverse settings ranging from New York City to the bottom of the Grand Canyon.  Changing teacher behavior and practices at the ground level to improve the quality of the classroom is a formidable challenge, particularly in highly rural areas, American Indian and Alaska Native programs, and Migrant and Seasonal Head Start programs where finding qualified staff can be difficult due to more limited access to higher education.  OHS is using multiple approaches to address this challenge, including policy levers, training and technical assistance, and professional development efforts."
