"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Health and Human Services",9,HHS,"Advance the Health, Safety, and Well-Being of the American People",531,683,"Improve the accessibility and quality of supportive services for people with disabilities and older adults","Improve the accessibility and quality of supportive services for people with disabilities and older adults","HHS programs and initiatives have special significance for older adults and people of all ages who have disabilities. Older adults and individuals with disabilities may need services and supports to assist them in performing routine activities of daily living such as eating and dressing. Improving access to, and the quality of, supports and services for older adults and people with disabilities is an HHS policy priority and is seen throughout HHS programs.","Office of the Secretary","Please note that this section summarizes the result of the FY 2014 HHS Strategic Review process, limiting the scope of content to that available prior to spring of 2015.  Due to this constraint, the following may not be the most current information available.  Conclusion:        Progressing  Analysis:  At a national population level, progress on this objective is being made.  The primary driver for accessibility and quality of long-term services and supports is the Medicaid program.  In 2008, 42 percent of Medicaid long-term services and supports expenditures were for home and community-based services (HCBS).  The most recent data from 2012 indicates that this has increased to nearly 50 percent.  Nearly half of the states expend 50 percent or more of their Medicaid long-term service and supports on home and community-based services.  The activities driving change in access to care include Money Follows the Person, Balancing Incentives Program, and Community First Choice – 1915(k) waivers.  The primary quality drivers in long-term care services and supports include HCBS final rule and the National Quality Forum quality measure initiative.  Nearly every state is implementing Money Follows the Person and while the most recent target was missed, more than 10,000 individuals transitioned in 2013.  Currently 21 states are approved under BIP, which is targeted at the states that have a low percent of long-term services and supports expenditures compared to institutional services.  Over a 4-year period $3 billion is available to these states and will likely have a significant impact in rebalancing long term care.  The 1915 (k) waiver is small with five states approved but growing as six additional states are in the planning stage.  The National Quality Forum quality measure initiative is an early milestone in the Department’s efforts to improve quality.  The lack of standard, reliable and valid measures is a primary barrier to quality improvement.  While each of the above accomplishments may be making a difference or are a milestone with great potential there are challenges and areas for improvement that can be identified for each.  HHS is working to strengthen quality measures, disseminate evidence-based interventions, and evaluate programs to improve our ability to serve seniors and people with disabilities.  A challenge facing the future development and endorsement of HCBS quality measures is the lack of organizational capacity for measures stewards to foster measures through the rigorous process.  Another challenge is the difficulty of dissemination of evidence-based interventions in nursing homes.  It is difficult for a number of reasons: there is high turnover of staff and leadership, nursing homes have a number of quality deficits that need to be dealt with, and it is difficult to engage in more than one or two interventions at one time.  Consequently, interventions need to compete with other interventions for attention.  In addition, delays in availability of Medicaid data required for the evaluation of the Financial Alignment Initiative for Medicare-Medicaid Enrollees may impact the timeframe for access to a complete, preliminary set of results necessary to comprehensively evaluate and disseminate best practices associated with the expanded services provided under the capitated financial alignment model demonstration.  In addition, states are working to transition from submitting Medicaid Statistical Information System (MSIS) data to instead submitting data through the new, transformed-MSIS (tMSIS) process.  During this transition period, some states are currently not submitting Medicaid data in either format, which may result in significant delays in data availability for evaluation purposes.  In the near term, the HCBS final rule has the potential to significantly impact quality of long-term service and supports in the community.  Challenges persist around implementation but federal partners are working with states to ensure the regulation results in improvements for beneficiaries.  With the dissemination of the On-Time pressure ulcer prevention intervention in 50 nursing homes the Department will assess the success of the new training materials, the ability to recruit nursing homes, successfully implement the intervention, and show that the intervention continues to prevent pressure ulcers and is sustainable.  Upcoming findings on the Financial Alignment Initiative will include the first state-specific annual reports for the three state demonstrations implemented in 2013.  ","Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services||Health",,,
