"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Health and Human Services",9,HHS,"Advance the Health, Safety, and Well-Being of the American People",531,685,"Reduce the occurrence of infectious diseases","Reduce the occurrence of infectious diseases","Addressing infectious diseases - including vaccine-preventable diseases, foodborne illnesses, HIV/AIDS and associated sexually transmitted infections, hepatitis, tuberculosis, health care-associated infections, novel influenza viruses, and infections transmitted by animals and insects - is an HHS priority.  HHS is working with its governmental and nongovernmental partners to strengthen basic and applied research, surveillance, diagnosis, and treatment efforts to reduce the burden of infectious diseases in the U.S. and throughout the world.","Office of the Secretary","Please note that this section summarizes the result of the FY 2014 HHS Strategic Review process, limiting the scope of content to that available prior to spring of 2015.  Due to this constraint, the following may not be the most current information available.  Conclusion:        Progressing  Analysis:      Infectious diseases response consumed significant HHS effort and resources in 2014.  At a time when MERS has replaced measles in the headlines and Ebola is just below the fold, review of HHS progress is timely and fraught with the enormity of the task.  Because infectious diseases know no borders the capabilities and capacity of local public health have a large impact on the occurrence of infectious diseases.  HHS works on many fronts to improve these capabilities globally.  Domestically, there is a disparity of state/local capacities and capability that alone and together impact the goal of reducing the occurrence of infectious diseases.  HHS’ impact on reducing the occurrence of variety of infectious diseases helps to illustrate progress on this objective.  For example, measles is a perfect indicator disease for the nation’s vaccine program.  While much attention was given to the outbreak of measles associated with Disneyland earlier this year as an indicator for the pockets of unimmunized children and adults in the country, had population immunity been significantly less, the outbreak would have been far more widespread and severe.  One lesson from the Disney-associated outbreak was that when many people are potentially exposed and need to be traced, it is an expensive and time-consuming process that diverts state and local health department resources from other priorities.  HHS staff played a significant role in the identification, containment, treatment and prevention of Ebola and Ebola Fighters were recognized as Time Magazine’s Person(s) of the Year.  The Department’s historic and continuing contributions to reducing HIV have contributed to the downward trajectory of the number of people who are dying from AIDS.  As President Obama said “This is a global fight and it’s one that America must continue to lead….no other country has done more that this country…  But we can’t be complacent,” PEPFAR’s impact far exceeds the reduction of suffering, death and despair caused by AIDS.  PEPFAR has built infrastructure, strengthened local health systems, and provided invaluable lessons and experience that will continue to inform and improve responses to unforeseen health crisis in the future.  HHS is working to address persistent challenges, especially in adult vaccination coverage, safe drinking water, and public health capacity.  Vaccination for seasonal influenza has improved, but not achieved desired levels.  Vaccination coverage levels among adults are low, and for those 65 and older the rate of vaccination has not substantially improved between 2000 and 2014.  Without concerted effort, especially given the aging of the US population, vaccine preventable disease in the adult population is unlikely to improve.  Approximately 13 percent of U.S. Households about 43 million people, use private drinking water systems that are unregulated under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act.  These systems are primarily private wells but may also include springs, cisterns, and hauled water systems.  From 1971 through 2006, there was significant increase in the annual outbreaks reported in individual water systems.  Public health resources are diminishing at multiple levels.  When state and local public health jobs are cut, the country loses important state and local capacity to track Healthcare Associated Infections or Antimicrobial Resistance, reduce our ability to assess prevention progress, provide infection control training, and effectively respond to outbreaks.  Staffing cuts also affect the capacity of public health laboratories to assist hospitals and test patient samples, and subsequently, the capacity of state and local public health to rapidly detect and respond to outbreaks.  A major area of effort for HHS will be the development of an Agency Priority Goal to combat antimicrobial resistance and including prevention activities related to antibiotic stewardship.  In terms of controlling the HIV epidemic, to the extent possible the Department will pivot to a data-driven approach, especially using sub-national and sub-population epidemiologic data that strategically targets geographic areas and populations where HIV/AIDS is most prevalent and has the greatest HIV incidence.",Health,374||368,"FY14-15 : Improve patient safety.||FY14-15 : Reduce foodborne illness in the population.","At any given time, about one in every 25 hospitalized patients has a healthcare-associated infection while over 1 million HAIs occur across the U.S. healthcare system every year. These infections can lead to significant morbidity and mortality, with tens of thousands of lives lost each year. Of these hospital-acquired events, catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CAUTI) are among the most common. Research has shown that a significant portion of these infections can be prevented, avoiding patient morbidity and mortality from this HAI while reducing costs accrued to the healthcare system. The HAI Agency Priority Goal is to reduce the national rate of HAI by demonstrating significant, quantitative and measurable reductions in hospital-acquired CAUTI. As such; the FY2014-15 HAI Agency Priority Goal (APG) is to reduce the national CAUTI standardized infection ratio by 10% by September 2015 over the current 2012 baseline of 1.03. Of note, this SIR baseline was changed from 1.02 to 1.03 in this goal. This reflects the fact that the CDC released preliminary final numbers for 2012 in September 2013, the time at which this goal was written. However, hospitals still had through the end of the year to report final data to NHSN. Accounting for the last three months of data submitted by some hospitals caused a slight adjustment in the final (and thus baseline) 2012 SIR from 1.02 to 1.03. We make this adjustment in the HAI.APG to reflect the finalized SIR and to maintain consistency with other HAI reports moving forward. As we carry this portion of the goal from the FY2011-13 goal, a concerted effort between the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and Office of the Assistant Secretary of Health (OASH) will continue to be a crucial to meeting goal targets. The main US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) operating divisions that constitute this workgroup will focus on applying their HAI programmatic efforts in a way that aligns strategy and metrics, provides consistent messaging to its audience, uses data to target those facilities in most need of improvement, and creates synergy to achieve CAUTI reduction outcomes. We will continue to use combined HHS programmatic levers to contribute to the achievement of CAUTI targets. These initiatives include: Quality Improvement Organization (QIOs) Program Hospital Inpatient Quality Reporting (HIQR) Program Disseminating Data for Action using the  National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) State HAI programs Partnership for Patients (PfP) Comprehensive Unit-based Safety Program (CUSP) for CAUTI Ongoing coordination through HAI strategic planning, HAI Regional and National Meetings Regular review and updates to the National Action Plan to prevent HAIs: ""Roadmap to Elimination."" Attention to several factors are necessary to assess progress toward goals in this new period. As in the previous HAI goal and consistent with a measurement strategy used by a majority of hospitals that participate in national HAI reporting initiatives, this goal will use the standardized infection ratio (SIR) as the measure, NHSN, the CDC-run infection surveillance system as the primary data source and report data points on  a biannual basis. A six month lag in data will remain in order to ensure the most complete and accurate data being reported out and minimize statistically insignificant variations in the data. Lessons learned from the previous goal allow us to predict potential changes in the CAUTI SIR trend in the months following January 2015 now that CMS' Hospital Inpatient Quality Reporting (HIQR)  program requires participating hospitals to report CAUTI in non-intensive care units to receive their full annual payment update. The influx of new CAUTI reporters in the middle of the previous 2011-13 HAI.APG was identified as one but not the sole, etiology behind an increase in the CAUTI SIR over the life of this goal. The differences in CAUTI SIRs in ICU and non-ICU settings along with the influx of new reporters among non-ICU locations in 2015 may impact this goal. The degree to which this could again be a factor again is unknown especially since through programmatic outreach, many hospitals already report non-ICU CAUTI data to NHSN voluntarily. We also anticipate application of the new CAUTI definition, which went into effect January 1, 2015, to the APG data we will report in subsequent quarters. Because our baseline CAUTI SIR was calculated using the old CAUTI definition, a strategy to ensure continuity and validity of new SIR data across this goal has been established. The CDC will construct a new SIR by applying the new CAUTI definition to our current baseline SIR and data points proceeding January 1, 2015. In other words, we will translate SIR data including our baseline data prior to January 1st to SIR data that is reflective of the changes in the CAUTI definition. We will also be able to illustrate the CAUTI SIR baseline and trending data by applying the new vs the old definition in order to demonstrate the degree of difference or lack thereof resulting from this definitional change. CDC has changed the CAUTI definition in response to input from stakeholders and scientific data.The HAI Workgroup will present full details on the definition change in relation to this goal and our targeted CAUTI SIR reductions to HHS leadership in November of 2015. Lastly, analysis of the CAUTI data continues to reveal marked difference in reductions between intensive care and non-intensive care units. Intensive care units have significantly higher SIRs, higher number of catheter-days, and show less reductions in these indicators of progress than in the non ICU setting. The difference in CAUTI reductions between ICUs and non-ICU settings have been highlighted in analysis of both NHSN and CUSP for CAUTI data. Given the fact that sicker patients are admitted in ICUs, retaining a urinary catheter for  longer may be a rooted in practice necessity or  provider belief that it is a necessity and so concentrating on behavioral and systems process change may need to be further emphasized as we  work in this setting to reduce CAUTI. The 10% goal for CAUTI reduction in this APG effort represents a composite goal that reflects greater reductions in non-ICU settings and lesser reductions in ICUs. Improvements in CAUTI however, have been demonstrated in large scale improvement programs when actively engaged in embedding evidence-based infection control protocol and a culture of safety unit and facility-wide. It’s also important to note that preliminary projections through the first three quarters of 2015 continue to show a fall in the CAUTI SIR and an on-track trajectory for achieving the CAUTI goal target.||Salmonella is the leading known cause of bacterial foodborne illness and death in the United States. Each year in the United States, Salmonella causes an estimated 1.2 million illnesses, including fever and diarrhea, and between 400 and 500 deaths. Salmonella serotype Enteritidis (SE), a subtype of Salmonella, is now the most common type of Salmonella in the United States and accounts for approximately 20% of all Salmonella cases in humans. The most significant sources of foodborne SE infections are shell eggs (FDA-regulated) and broiler chickens (USDA-regulated). Therefore, reducing SE illness from shell eggs is the most appropriate FDA strategy for reducing illness from SE. Preventing Salmonella infections depends on actions taken by regulatory agencies, the food industry and consumers to reduce contamination of food, as well as actions taken for detecting and responding to outbreaks. As part of the shared vision to reduce foodborne illness, HHS's Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has developed a Priority Goal to reduce Salmonella contamination in shell eggs, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is working with FDA to gather more data to better estimate sources of illness. Additionally, USDA, FDA and CDC are involved in many interagency efforts, including the Interagency Food Safety Analytics Collaboration (IFSAC). This interagency collaboration is working to improve methods used to estimate the proportion of foodborne illnesses associated with specific sources."
