"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Defense",7,DOD,"Strengthen and Enhance the Health and Effectiveness of the Total Workforce",549,72591,"Ensure that we maintain a highly-skilled military and civilian workforce shaped for today’s and tomorrow’s needs.",,,,"FY 2015 APR Progress Update Acquisition Position Certification Requirements: Note included is 17.6% of the workforce that is within a 24 month period allowed by policy for achieving their certification requirement by their position.  The Director, HCI is considering revising the metric to more accurately focus on the percent that are not certified and outside the 24 month period.  For FY 2015, for example, 3.7% of the acquisition workforce does not meet their position certification requirements and are outside the 24 month period.   FY 2015 APR Progress Update Time to Hire: The average time to hire (TTH) for all hires is 83 days this quarter (Q4).  The average TTH for FY 2015 is 83 days, down from 89 days in FY 2014* and slightly above the 80 day target. Historically, we expect an increase in TTH from Q3 to Q4 each year.  FY 2015 is no different, following the pattern of the last decade. Overall, external hires with high and low position sensitivity are taking longer than similar internal hires.  The TTH for temporary hires, which has been consistently lower than term/permanent hires for years, is now creeping upward in all Services.  Over the years these actions have kept our aggregated time to hire down.  Presentation of data by quarter independently instead of the cumulative presentation of the past shows repeatable seasonality over the last 10 years, altered only when hiring freezes and furloughs impacted the FY 2013 and FY 2014 data.  Seasonality is driven by “seasonal hiring,” typically temporary hires, that pull down the TTH (such as teachers, who are traditionally hired on a school year cycle, as well as student and summer hires).  Environment changes, such as ships coming into port for overhaul, create a surge of temporary hires, which can decrease the TTH.  However, seasonality and environment changes can also negatively affect hiring time efficiency when staff size decreases during summer and winter quarters, and changes in the methodology of hiring students occurs. Other contributing factors that increased FY15 TTH include: Department of the Navy (DON) Q2FY15 prediction of a higher TTH in Q3 & Q4 due to “Operation Hiring Solutions” focusing on external hires and submitting actions as early as possible; and the temporary suspension of OPM Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP).  OPM e-QIP was shut down on June 26, 2015 and restored on July 23, 2015, which led to significant delays and lengthened the TTH process. ","Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services||Management",,,
