"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Commerce",6,DOC,"Ensure communities and businesses have the necessary information, products, and services to prepare for and prosper in a changing environment",564,843,"Foster healthy and sustainable marine resources, habitats, and ecosystems through improved management and partnerships. (NOAA)","Foster healthy and sustainable marine resources, habitats, and ecosystems through improved management and partnerships. (NOAA)","The ocean economy contributes more than $250 billion annually to the Nation’s economy, supports approximately 44 million jobs in coastal counties, and enhances diverse ocean-based communities.  The many economic, social, and environmental benefits that ocean ecosystems provide are jeopardized by global demands for seafood and energy, coastal development, increased tourism and recreational use.  Threats from climate change, ocean acidification, coastal wetland loss, and other environmental stressors are even more ominous.  They threaten human health and the domestic food supply.  They place greater stress on overexploited fish stocks, iconic marine species, and their habitats, and reduce ecosystem sustainability, biodiversity, and resilience.     Effective policy and management of human activities, based on strong science, partnerships, and technology, are essential to sustain healthy ocean resources, habitats, ecosystems and coastal communities.  The Department has strong legislative mandates and a pivotal role in sustaining marine fisheries and ecosystems, protecting sensitive areas and cultural heritage, and limiting the consequences of cumulative impacts.",,"The Department of Commerce (DOC), in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, has determined that performance toward fostering healthy and sustainable marine resources, habitats, and ecosystems is making noteworthy progress.  Many actions associated with the three key strategies supporting this objective have led to significant improvements in our marine ecosystems.  For example, seven stocks were removed from the overfishing list and four stocks are no longer listed as overfished (see Current Fishery Statistics No. 2013).  For the first time in 19 years, and only the second time ever, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) was able to de-list a species listed under the Endangered Species Act (ESA) due to recovery: the eastern population of the Steller sea lion.  Moreover, the final rule establishing the Sanctuary Nomination Process was published in June 2014.  This process addresses the growing interest from communities, state and tribal governments, members of Congress, and non-governmental organizations in the establishment of new and expanded marine sanctuaries.  FY 2014 Accomplishments include:  Strengthen capabilities to assess and monitor fish and protected resources (NOAA)   	NOAA developed the first methodology to rapidly assess the vulnerability of U.S. marine fish stocks to changing climate and ocean conditions. The Fish Stock Climate Vulnerability Assessment methodology uses information on climate and ocean conditions, species distributions, and life history characteristics to help fisheries managers and scientists identify which species are most vulnerable or adaptable to climate change impacts. 	NOAA has begun a stock assessment prioritization process. The aim of the prioritization process is to provide an objective framework to help guide regional decisions about which stocks are in need of assessment, and the level at which these assessments should be conducted.      Improve recovery of listed species through innovative partnerships  (NOAA)   	Fish returns in the Columbia River Basin were at or near record levels and endangered Snake River sockeye salmon returns to Redfish Lake in Idaho were the best since 1955.  While favorable ocean conditions play a role in the large returns, fish passage improvements directed by NOAA and its partners allowed fish stocks to take advantage of these improved conditions. 	NOAA announced in August 2014 that it will use Endangered Species Act (ESA) designation to provide additional protections to 20 species of coral, all of which have been listed as threatened.  NOAA is collaborating with partners on conservation measures and recovery strategies for the newly listed corals, building from approaches that have shown success elsewhere, and is working to ensure that these efforts complement the requirements of the ESA.      Enhance place-based conservation  (NOAA)   	NOAA announced the selection of six new Habitat Focus Areas under the NOAA Habitat Blueprint. These focus areas span the country from the Pacific Islands, to the Great Lakes and the North Atlantic. The activities planned and already underway in each of these areas aim to improve habitat for the benefit of both commercial and recreational fisheries, protected species, and coastal communities. 	NOAA completed the draft management plan to expand the Hawaiian Island Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary from a single species focus to an ecosystem approach.                                         Next Steps in FY 2015:                                                                                                                                                               Q1FY15   	Produce regionally specific electronic monitoring implementation plans. 	Complete selection of Habitat Blueprint Focus Areas and form associated implementation teams for Alaska, South Atlantic, and Caribbean regions.   Q2FY15   	Plan, stage and begin a cetacean and ecosystem survey of the entire California Current (West Coast Marine Mammal Survey). 	Expand and share protected resource modeling and assessment tools on a nationally available host site. 	Working with partners (states, other Federal agencies), finalize the recovery plan for elkhorn and staghorn corals. 	Complete revision of Memorandum of Understanding establishing joint jurisdiction of sea turtles under ESA between the National Marine Fisheries Service and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. 	Complete NEPA related scoping for Hawaii National Estuarine Research Reserve (NERR) Designation Process.   Q3FY15   	Test the Protocol for fish Stock Assessment Prioritization. 	Improve fish and protected species survey capabilities with advance sampling technologies. 	Complete a programmatic ESA Section 7 consultation with the Army Corps of Engineers on permitting docks in the Columbia River, WA.   Q4FY15   	Assess vulnerability of fish stocks to climate change. 	Identify tools and best practices for accessing protected species climate vulnerability. 	Complete NOAA's in-water oyster reef habitat restoration activities in Harris Creek, MD. 	Conserve and restore habitat for endangered coho salmon, threaten Chinook salmon, and steelhead trout within the Russian River CA Habitat Focus Area. 	Work with partners (state, other Federal agencies, NGOs) to develop a management plan for monk seals in the Main Hawaiian Islands to coordinate involvement of stakeholders. 	Increase the acreage of coastal, marine, and Great Lakes area designated for long-term protection by 4,239,646 acres with the finalization of three national marine sanctuary boundary expansions (e.g., Thunder Bay, Gulf of the Farallones, and Cordell Bank national marine sanctuaries).      Other Notes/Information:  This strategic objective includes an Agency Priority Goal (APG):  By the end of FY2015, confirm overfishing has been eliminated on all 21 domestic stocks that were identified as subject to overfishing as of June 30, 2013 using catch data relative to overfishing limits (OFLs).  The goal of this measure is to show that by implementing rigorous limits on annual catch, the U.S. can end and prevent overfishing.  This is a key step to ensuring the sustainable management of our nation’s fisheries.  Federal fishery management is based on the concept of maximum sustainable yield, which is the largest long-term average catch that can be taken from a stock under prevailing environmental and fishery conditions.  As of September 30, 2014, final fishing year 2013 catch estimates are available for 13 of the 21 stocks.  Catch did not exceed the OFL for 11 of those 13 stocks, meeting our target for FY 2014. NOAA applied a combination of management measures to prevent overfishing of these stocks, including:  size limits, trip limits, gear restrictions and seasonal closures.  Final fishing year 2013 catch estimates for the remaining 8 stocks are expected by January 1, 2015.  In the 2013 fishing year, catch exceeded the OFL for two stocks, Gulf of Mexico gray triggerfish and South Atlantic speckled hind.  The Gulf of Mexico gray triggerfish overage was due to high recreational catch.  To mitigate this overage and reduce the chances of the 2014 OFL being exceeded, NOAA shortened the 2014 recreational fishing season.  The South Atlantic speckled hind overage resulted from a very small amount of landings of this stock, contrary to regulations that prohibit retention and landing.  The OFL is not specified, therefore the ACL, which is set at zero, is used in the APG as a proxy for the OFL.  As retention of South Atlantic speckled hind is already prohibited, there will be no additional management action as a result of the overage.","Natural Resources and Environment",1068,"FY14-15 : Confirm elimination of Overfishing","The purpose of this goal is to show that by implementing rigorous limits on annual catch, the U.S. can end and prevent overfishing. This is a key step to ensuring the sustainable management of our nation’s fisheries.  Federal fishery management is based on the concept of maximum sustainable yield, which is the largest long-term average catch that can be taken from a stock under prevailing environmental and fishery conditions.  A stock that is subject to overfishing has a fishing mortality (harvest) rate higher than the rate that produces maximum sustainable yield. The amount of catch equivalent to this harvest rate is the overfishing limit (OFL).   The Magnuson-Stevens Act is the primary law that governs how fisheries are managed in U.S. federal waters.  When the Magnuson-Stevens Act was reauthorized in 2007, it mandated that annual catch limits (ACLs) be put in place for all federally managed domestic fish stocks, with certain exceptions.  ACLs are set at a level below the OFL to account for scientific uncertainty and to reduce the risk of overfishing.  ACLs are in place for all fish stocks as required by the Magnuson-Stevens Act.  These catch limits should keep catch below the OFL and prevent overfishing on these stocks.  Preventing overfishing should increase the long-term economic and social benefits of the nation’s fisheries."
