"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Small Business Administration",28,SBA,"Growing businesses and creating jobs",596,917,"Expand access to capital","Expand access to capital through SBA's extensive lending network","Access to capital is critical to the long-term success of America’s small businesses.  The top priority at the SBA is to get lending flowing to small businesses.  As the economy continues to improve, the SBA is working to ensure that remaining gaps in the commercial markets are filled and that small businesses across the country are well positioned to take advantage of opportunities.  The SBA also continues to streamline and simplify its loan programs to make its products more attractive to lenders and borrowers.","Office of Capital Access","The SBA made substantial progress toward its Priority Goal in 2015 by adding 292 new 7(a) lenders to its network.  While the SBA did not meet its FY 2015 target, the 7(a) loan program increased by 23 percent from FY 2014, leading to a record year of approvals in volume and dollars.  Bank mergers have impacted the number of active lending partners providing the number of 7(a) loans.  This goal continued to help expand SBA’s footprint to increase small business access to capital.  In addition, significant progress continued to be made streamlining and simplifying the loan application process, decreasing processing time, and lowering costs to participants.  The number of jobs supported from 7(a) loans, 504 loans, microloans, and surety bond guaranties has increased since 2010 with the FY 2015 results showing nearly 729,000 jobs supported.","Commerce and Housing Credit",36342||418,"FY16-17 : Strengthen and expand the network of lenders offering SBA products||FY14-15 : Increase Active Lender Participation","Providing access to capital has been one of the SBA’s critical strategies in meeting its objective to drive business formation, job growth, and economic expansion particularly in underserved markets since the Agency’s creation in 1953. By providing loan guarantees to reduce lenders’ loss exposure, the SBA provides an important credit lifeline to small businesses, especially startup businesses and businesses owned by women, minorities, veterans and other underserved groups that often cannot easily obtain credit in the  conventional market.  SBA loan programs are necessary to ensure that small businesses are not only surviving but also leading the way toward US economic expansion and growth. The 7(a) Loan program is the federal government’s primary small business loan program, assisting small businesses to obtain financing when they do not qualify for or otherwise have access to traditional credit.  The SBA guarantees a portion of each loan (typically 50 to 90%) that participating lenders make by using the adjusted credit standards of the 7(a) loan program. SBA's FY 2014-2015 Priority Goal to increase new and returning 7(a) lenders has reduced the decline from FY 2012 to FY 2014.  SBA will continue to support small business access to capital by increasing the number of lenders participating in the flagship 7(a) loan program (including the Community Advantage pilot program). Lender participation is essential to growth in the quantity of loans approved and small businesses assisted. Attaining a high volume of lender participation will create a consistent pipeline of SBA loans to small businesses. This Priority Goal directly supports SBA’s Strategic Objective 1.1 – Expand access to capital through SBA’s extensive lending network.  Access to capital is critical to the long-term success of America’s small businesses.  The top priority at the SBA is to get lending flowing to small businesses. Key barriers and challenges: Economic Trends; micro- and macro-economic that impact whether banks want to provide SBA-backed loans such as: Lender may not have the technology in  place to support migration to SBA systems Some industries may have a high default rate and a risk that would not allow a lender to underwrite a SBA backed loan Lender located in an area where some industries are effected by geographic factors that would make a risk (for example, Northeast Area has a big fishing industry that depends on weather, availability of product, regulations, etc.)  Bank mergers impact the number of lending partners providing 7(a) loan Program awareness of SBA products and services and a shrinking workforce in field offices which provide training||Providing access to capital has been one of the SBA’s critical strategies in meeting its objective to drive business formation, job growth and economic expansion particularly in underserved markets since the agency was created in 1953. By providing loan guarantees to reduce lenders’ loss exposure, the SBA provides an important credit lifeline to small businesses, especially startup businesses and businesses owned by women, minorities, veterans and other underserved groups who often cannot easily obtain credit in the  conventional market.  In the current economic conditions, SBA loan programs become even more crucial for ensuring that small businesses are not only surviving but also leading the way toward economic recovery and growth, as they have done time-and-time again throughout U.S. history. SBA will increase small business access to capital by increasing the number of new or returning lenders in the fiscal year for the flagship 7(a) program (including the Community Advantage pilot program). New and returning lenders are a major component of SBA’s lending portfolio and are essential to growth in the quantity of loans approved and small businesses assisted. Each new or returning lender will expand SBA’s footprint and increase small business access to capital. Attaining a high volume of new and returning lenders from one fiscal year to the next will create a consistent pipeline of SBA loans into the hands of small business. There are barriers and challenges to the SBA in achieving its priority goals: Economic Trends; micro and macro Issues within the Finance Industry as a whole Shrinking workforce in field offices which provide training Recent cases from the OIG reviewing SBA lenders underwriting criteria have triggered a more cautious approach from some lenders with some loan guaranty types"
