"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Small Business Administration",28,SBA,"Growing businesses and creating jobs",596,918,"Ensure federal contracting goals are met or exceeded","Ensure federal contracting goals are me and/or exceeded by collaborating across the federal government to expand opportunities for small businesses and strengthen the integrity of the federal contracting certification process and data.","Small business contracting is one of the most important federal programs to help America’s small businesses grow and create jobs.  The federal government gets to work with the most innovative small businesses in America today, and small businesses get critical revenue to build and scale their operations.  SBA’s goal is to make sure that all federal agencies meet or exceed their targets for federal prime contracting dollars awarded to small businesses.  The SBA is improving coordination and communication across the federal government, facilitating matchmaking events, increasing online trainings and holding senior officials accountable for meeting their agencies’ small business goals.   SBA continues to simplify access to federal contracting opportunities and educate small businesses on the contracting opportunities available to them.  The SBA is also streamlining the certification process and data for federal contracting and continues to aggressively root out fraud, waste and abuse in small business contracting to ensure that contracting dollars go to deserving small businesses.","Office of Government Contracting & Business Development (GCBD)","The SBA, in consultation with OMB, has determined that the performance toward this objective is making noteworthy progress.  For the second consecutive year, the federal government surpassed its statutory prime contracting goal and the SBA achieved its Priority Goal of 23 percent of federal contracting dollars going to small businesses.  As a result of government-wide focus, small businesses have been awarded $92 billion in federal contracting dollars.  The goal for service-disabled veterans surpassed its three percent target (FY 2014 result of 3.68 percent) for the third time, and small disadvantaged businesses exceeded its five percent target (FY 2014 result of 9.46 percent).  Women-owned small business contracts increased from 4.32 percent in FY 2013 to 4.68 percent in FY 2014.  Although the HUBZone program continues to recruit new small businesses, the portfolio has not recovered from the re-designation of HUBZone areas from the 2010 census.  Note: Due to data lags in federal contracting, SBA’s FY 2015 Strategic Objective 1.2 Progress Update uses FY 2014 results.       ","Commerce and Housing Credit",416||36362||100031,"FY14-15 : Maximize Small Business participation in government contracting||FY16-17 : Maximize small business participation in government contracting||FY16-17 : Grow the number of 8(a)-certified disadvantaged small businesses","Congress has mandated that small businesses receive 23% of federal government prime contracting dollars, including 5% of prime and subcontracts to Small Disadvantage Businesses; 5% of prime and subcontracts to Women-Owned Small Businesses; 3% of prime and subcontracts to HUBZone Small Businesses; and 3% of prime and subcontracts to Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses Meeting and exceeding the federal government’s small business procurement goals continues to be an Administration priority.  Federal contracting with small businesses is a win-win.  Small businesses get the revenue they need to grow their businesses and create jobs, and the federal government gets the opportunity to work with some of America’s most innovative and nimble small businesses, often times with a direct line to the CEO. In FY 2012, the federal government made real progress toward the 23 percent goal, with 22.25 percent or $89.9 billion in federal contracting dollars going to small businesses compared to 21.65 percent in FY 2011, with significant impact in key areas: For the first time, more agencies than ever before met or surpassed all of their prime contracting goals. Also, for the first time, the federal government exceeded the goal for service disabled veterans. The federal government had the highest percentage of contracts going to Small Disadvantage Businesses to date. As a result of a government wide focus on increasing small business contracting opportunities, during President Obama’s first term (FY2009 - FY2012) the federal government awarded $376.2 billion in federal contracting dollars to small businesses.  This is a $48.1 billion increase over the four preceding years even as we have seen reduced spending overall. Also, since President Obama took office, the SBA has supported more than $132.61 billion in Federal government contracting dollars to small disadvantaged businesses. This represents a 36.6 percent increase when compared to the prior Administration. Under the Bush Administration’s first term, $97.10 billion in federal government contracting dollars were awarded to small disadvantaged businesses. Although we have seen marked success over the last few years, we know more must be done.  Many challenges exist for small businesses seeking to enter the federal procurement marketplace. The unpredictable and changing budget climate is a challenge for small businesses, and SBA is working hard to create an environment where small businesses can be successful in the federal procurement marketplace. The instability and ambiguity caused by Continuing Resolutions make it difficult to agency acquisition staff to plan effectively for small business utilization. Entering the federal supply chain can often be a lengthy and arduous process for many small businesses. SBA’s GCBD unit must implement effective and efficient strategies to monitor the agencies’ progress to goal, support small businesses interested in working with the government and encourage agencies to improve data quality when reporting their contracting activities.  SBA will increase its efforts to collaborate with and hold federal agencies accountable to achieving their goals.||When a small business is awarded a government contract, the small business is often able to quickly create jobs and spur economic growth.  The government agency often has a “direct line” to the CEO, helping ensure that products and services are meeting or exceeding expectations and serving America’s taxpayers.  Also, underserved communities – including women, minorities, veterans and others – often have extreme difficulty in accessing federal contracting opportunities as market gaps remain.  SBA’s unique contracting programs provide a path to business growth for these populations. Congress has mandated that small businesses receive 23% of federal government prime contracting dollars, including 5% of prime and subcontracts to Small Disadvantage Businesses; 5% of prime and subcontracts to Women-Owned Small Businesses; 3% of prime and subcontracts to HUBZone Small Businesses; and 3% of prime and subcontracts to Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses. Meeting and exceeding the federal government’s small business procurement goals continues to be an Administration priority.  Federal contracting with small businesses is a win-win.  Small businesses get the revenue they need to grow their businesses and create jobs, and the federal government gets the opportunity to work with some of America’s most innovative and nimble small businesses, often times with a direct line to the CEO. This Priority Goal directly supports SBA’s strategic objectives: Strategic Objective 1.2 – Ensure federal contracting goals are met or exceeded by collaborating across the federal government to expand opportunities for small businesses and strengthen the integrity of the federal contracting certification process and data. Strategic Objective 2.1 – Ensure inclusive entrepreneurship by expanding access and opportunity to small businesses and entrepreneurs in communities where market gaps remain Small businesses are agile, innovative and affordable partners for the federal government.  Through small business contracting, the federal government acts as a catalyst for small business growth, innovation, and supports the national economic security of the nation. Congress designated SBA as the agency responsible for overseeing small business contracting across the federal government.  The SBA takes this responsibility seriously as the strongest voice for small business across the Administration. Key barriers and challenges: The unpredictable and changing budget climate is a challenge for small businesses, and SBA is working hard to create an environment where small businesses can be successful in the federal procurement marketplace.  The instability and ambiguity caused by Continuing Resolutions make it difficult to agency acquisition staff to plan effectively for small business utilization. Entering the federal supply chain can often be a lengthy and arduous process for many small businesses. The Administration and SBA continue to increase efforts and collaboration to provide more opportunities for small businesses to compete for and win federal contracts. Strategic Sourcing, Bundling, and Contracting Consolidation continue to be major concerns for small business opportunity and expansion.  While the government strives to balance affordability with opportunity, SBA engages with agencies to continue to promote broader competitive opportunities to ensure the health of the small business industrial base is not adversely affected due to strategic sourcing or consolidating requirements and to protect small business from contract bundling. SBA must continue to implement effective and efficient strategies to monitor the agencies’ progress, support small businesses interested in working with the government, and improve the data quality agencies use to manage their contracting activities.||The 8(a) Program is an essential instrument for helping socially and economically disadvantaged entrepreneurs gain access to the economic mainstream of American society. The program helps thousands of aspiring entrepreneurs to gain a foothold in government contracting. 8(a) firms are also provided with business development assistance and can participate in the Mentor Protégé Program to build their competitive and institutional know-how to participate in competitive acquisitions. A few years ago, the 8(a) Program boasted over 9,000 certified 8(a) participants, but has declined to less than 4,700 due to the administratively burdensome application process.  Though the regulatory guidance provides the SBA approximately 90 days to process a complete application, several firms have endured delays that extend anywhere from 6 months to several years.  Further, the SBA rate of approval for applicants that complete the application process is exceptionally low, under 50%.  While over 2,000 applicants apply each year, the SBA rejects most applications as incomplete or missing documentation.  Historically, only 25% of the applicants or about 500-600 applicants per year get through the burdensome process for a final decision from the Associate Administrator of the Office of 8(a) Business Development.  The SBA’s low rate of approval has led to an industry of third party firms that charge socially and economically disadvantaged applicants anywhere from $5,000 to $75,000 to prepare the application and respond to the SBA processors.  Some of these firms are taking advantage of applicants; and regardless of the amount paid, there is no guarantee of approval because the SBA approval rate is consistently less than 50%. This Priority Goal is designed to grow the 8(a) Program by improving customer service for the 8(a) applicants and reduce the unnecessary administrative burdens on applicant firms.  Growth of the program will open opportunities for socially and economically disadvantaged entrepreneurs to gain a foothold in government contracting. The mission of the Office of Business Development is to execute activities authorized under Sections 8(a) and 7(j) of the Small Business Act to provide business development assistance to firms that are owned and controlled by economically and socially disadvantaged individuals. The office fulfills its mission by certifying the eligibility of prospective 8(a) business development firm participants and managing a national program that provides marketing, managerial, technical, and procurement assistance to help eligible businesses achieve their full competitive potential. The SBA will continue to work collaboratively with community development partners, credit unions, minority associations and others to tailor programs to meet their needs and ensure that SBA’s programs remain accessible to underserved communities. This Priority Goal directly supports SBA’s strategic objectives: Strategic Objective 1.2 – Ensure federal contracting goals are met or exceeded by collaborating across the federal government to expand opportunities for small businesses and strengthen the integrity of the federal contracting certification process and data. Strategic Objective 2.1 – Ensure inclusive entrepreneurship by expanding access and opportunity to small businesses and entrepreneurs in communities where market gaps remain Strategic Objective 3.3 – Mitigate risk to taxpayers and improve oversight across SBA programs The goals address the ongoing decline in number of 8(a) small businesses.  Through 8(a) sole source and competitive contracting opportunities, the federal government acts as a catalyst for small business growth, innovation, job creation, and supports the national economic security of the nation. When a small business gets a government contract, the small business is often able to quickly create jobs and spur economic growth.  The government agency often has a “direct line” to the CEO, helping ensure that products and services are meeting or exceeding expectations and serving America’s taxpayers. Key barriers and challenges: Many challenges exist for growing the 8(a) program and increasing the total number of application approvals for 8(a) firms. However, the SBA is committed to make smart, bold, and customer focused changes to make the 8(a) program accessible to all firms that meet the eligibility requirements of the program.  Consistent measurement of progress and monitoring of implementation of new and streamlined procedures will be key to avoid reverting to historical trends of rejecting 50% of more of the completed applications.  Challenges include: Uncertainty whether competitors will respond favorably to the necessary regulatory changes that will be posted in the Federal Register to remove longstanding but unnecessary burdens on firms.  Some examples are ‘wet signatures’ and a mandatory waiting period of 12 months to reapply after being declined by the SBA regardless of the reason for the decline. Potential for low employee engagement or desire for the status quo within the Office of Business Development. The staff assigned to process applications work remotely from the SBA Headquarters in Washington DC and have been trained in current processes that have proven burdensome. Office of Field Operation’s Business Opportunity Specialists (BOS) who conduct the day-to-day marketing to 8(a) applicants and provide business development for 8(a) certified firms.  The BOS are assigned other priorities leaving minimal time for 8(a) business development.  The decline in access to business development creates an increase in the number of firms that are terminated each year because they do not stay connected to the SBA and do not meet program requirements for annual reviews. The SBA programs that contribute to this Agency Priority Goal are: Size Standards, Mentor-Protégé, 8(a) Business Development, 7(j) Technical Assistance."
