"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Small Business Administration",28,SBA,"Growing businesses and creating jobs",596,919,"Strengthen entrepreneurial ecosystems","Strengthen entrepreneurial ecosystems through a variety of strategic partnerships to provide tailored training, mentoring and counseling services that support entrepreneurs during every phase of their business growth","Entrepreneurs and small business owners who receive training, mentoring and/or advising  services increase sales, create more jobs, and have greater economic impact on their communities.  SBA’s resource partner network, including 63 SBDCs with over 900 outreach locations, over 100 WBCs, and 11,000 SCORE volunteers nationwide, along with online training, assists more than one million business owners and entrepreneurs each year.  The SBA also leads and builds partnerships with other agencies and private sector partners to support robust entrepreneurial ecosystems across the country.  For instance, regional innovation clusters bring together small businesses and entrepreneurs with venture capitalists, universities and regional industry leaders who can help leverage a region’s unique assets to turn entrepreneurial ideas into high-growth small businesses.","Office of Entrepreneurial Development","The SBA continued to make progress strengthening entrepreneurial development by providing advising, mentoring, and training services to small businesses.  However, the ability to capture data that does not allow unique data on small businesses and account information due to privacy concerns and statutory restrictions poses a challenge to assessing program outcomes.  To better assess program progress and enhance the use of evidence, the Agency and OMB requests legislative authority to collect better data from grantees to be used for internal evaluation purposes.  The SBA seeks to establish unique identifiers that will protect small businesses to the fullest extent of the law.  This authority would give the SBA the ability to collect identifiable information on small businesses receiving assistance.  Currently, SBDCs and WBCs record data on each business they serve but may not report certain business information to the SBA except for the limited purposes identified in the Small Business Act.  Adding program evaluations and similar program assessments to the list of allowable purposes would help the SBA to better understand program effectiveness to support resource partners.  The Agency is also leading an interagency working group that supports the President’s directive (OMB Memorandum M-14-06) for using administrative data for statistical purposes to understand program outcomes and economic impacts.","Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services||Commerce and Housing Credit||Community and Regional Development",1196,"FY14-15 : Expand the base of lenders for small business exporters","The priority goal is directly tied to the objective of both the National Export Initiative (NEI) and the Export Promotion Cabinet (EPC) to expand SME access to trade financing, which has been identified as a gap issue for smaller exporters.  Increasing access to export financing, combined with trade counseling and training, will contribute to the enhanced ability of current and future U.S. small business exporters to succeed in the global marketplace and supports the cross-agency goal of doubling U.S. exports.  There are barriers and challenges to the SBA in achieving its priority goals: From a marketing perspective, communicating and disseminating trade financing information to lenders and small business exporters could provide challenging given current, and anticipated, budget constraints on staffing. Inter-agency collaboration and joint initiatives can be challenging to manage, given the differing regulations and performance metrics of individual agencies, which might reduce the commitment of other agencies to help support this priority. Unique, and sometimes additional, Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) requirements for core export loans vs. other 7(a) loan products can confuse lenders and may require the creation of “Lender Training Manuals,” more extensive lender training, and Office of Capital Access support in implementing needed SOP revisions. In terms of operations, a reduced travel budget could greatly restrict the ability of field staff to deliver the necessary training to lenders and businesses that would expand the use of SBA loan programs for exporters, given that SBA's specialized trade finance specialists cover multiple states. The banking sector could receive another “financial shock,” forcing it to tighten lending requirements to small businesses and/or Basel III capital requirements could limit lending capacity.*  U.S. export growth could slow, reducing demand for trade financing, as a result of slow overseas economic growth and/or a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, making U.S. exports less competitive.   Trade financing historically has been perceived by many lenders, especially community banks, as being too complex to be incorporated into their suite of financial products. Working with other federal agencies, SBA will help reduce the complexity of USG trade financing and export marketing programs and highlight the growing importance of exports to the U.S. economy, thereby encouraging more lenders to offer comprehensive business solutions to their export customers.  In addition, SBA will leverage its outreach by working with state, federal, and other resource partners in order to promote customized trade financing options to the small business exporting community."
