"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Small Business Administration",28,SBA,"Growing businesses and creating jobs",596,920,"Ensure SBA’s disaster assistance can be deployed quickly, effectively and efficiently","Ensure that SBA’s disaster assistance resources for businesses, non-profit organizations, homeowners, and renters can be deployed quickly, effectively and efficiently in order to preserve jobs and help return small businesses to operation.","Returning small business operations to normal after a disaster is critical to ensuring that local economies regain traction as quickly as possible and are once again able to contribute to the economy and create jobs.  The SBA, in coordination with the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), other federal agencies, the American Red Cross and array of state and local entities, helps small businesses prepare for disaster and provides timely and accessible low-cost, low-interest loans to small business owners, non-profits, homeowners, and renters who are survivors of disaster.","Office of Disaster Assistance (ODA)","The SBA, in consultation with the OMB, has determined that the performance toward this objective is making noteworthy progress.  The SBA exceeded its Disaster Loan Application Return Rate Priority Goal of 34 percent.  By using call centers and promoting the use of electronic loan applications, the SBA enhanced program efficiency by reducing errors and processing times and improved customer service.  SBA disaster loan activity was lower than average with only 33,743 applications being processed (30,084 homes, 3,659 businesses, including EIDLs).  A normal year of disaster loan activity for the SBA is based on 40,000 home loan applications, 10,000 business loan applications, and 2,000 EIDL applications processed.  The SBA, in working 255 active disaster declarations across the country, approved 11,447 disaster loans for a total of $371.7 million in assistance to disaster survivors.","Commerce and Housing Credit||Community and Regional Development",414,"FY14-15 : Increase the Disaster Loan Application Return Rate","The FY13 baseline number for Disaster Loan Application Return Rate was 24%, so the goal for FY14 is to achieve 29% and 34% in FY15.  Increasing the application return rate will improve the delivery of the Disaster Loan Program. The primary opportunity being addressed is that a higher application return rate should result in a greater number of disaster survivors that will apply for disaster loan assistance and receive much needed Federal disaster assistance. SBA’s plan to increase the application return rate also ensures that SBA's disaster assistance resources for businesses, non-profit organizations, homeowners, and renters can be deployed quickly, effectively and efficiently in order to preserve jobs and help return small businesses to operation. SBA’s plan to increase the application return rate will indirectly make the Disaster Loan Program more efficient by: 1) saving costs on mailing application packets to 100% of disaster survivors referred to SBA; and 2) freeing up resources dedicated to preparing and mailing application packets that can be utilized in other critical areas of the application screening process that directly impact processing times."
