"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Small Business Administration",28,SBA,"Serving as the voice for small business",517,922,"Ensure inclusive entrepreneurship","Ensure inclusive entrepreneurship by expanding access and opportunity to small businesses and entrepreneurs in communities where market gaps remain","Underserved communities – including women, low-income, minorities, veteran entrepreneurs – often have extreme difficulty in accessing capital, training, advising, and mentoring services and federal contracts.  SBA’s unique approach to inclusive entrepreneurship provides products, services and programs that offer a path to business ownership for these populations that also suffer from disproportionately high levels of unemployment.  The SBA will continue to work collaboratively with community development partners, credit unions, minority associations and others to tailor programs to meet their needs and ensure that SBA’s programs remain accessible to underserved communities.","Office of Entrepreneurial Development (OED), Office of Capital Access, Office of Government Contracting & Business Development, Office of Veterans Development, Office of Native American Affairs","The Administrator has made inclusiveness a key commitment, and the SBA continues to make progress toward this objective.  In FY 2015, the SBA assisted more than 50,000 small businesses in underserved markets through loan and contracting programs.  This year, veterans received more than 3,000 loans totaling $1.4 billion.  The SBA has made a commitment to supporting veterans returning from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and providing them with the resources they need to be successful entrepreneurs, particularly as the unemployment rate for veterans is higher than the national average.  This year, the SBA developed Boots to Business: Reboot (B2B|R), an initiative to extend the entrepreneurship track of the Transition Assistance Program to veterans who have already transitioned to civilian life, and trained approximately 850 veterans and spouses in 58 B2B|R courses around the country.","Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services||Commerce and Housing Credit||Community and Regional Development",418||416,"FY14-15 : Increase Active Lender Participation||FY14-15 : Maximize Small Business participation in government contracting","Providing access to capital has been one of the SBA’s critical strategies in meeting its objective to drive business formation, job growth and economic expansion particularly in underserved markets since the agency was created in 1953. By providing loan guarantees to reduce lenders’ loss exposure, the SBA provides an important credit lifeline to small businesses, especially startup businesses and businesses owned by women, minorities, veterans and other underserved groups who often cannot easily obtain credit in the  conventional market.  In the current economic conditions, SBA loan programs become even more crucial for ensuring that small businesses are not only surviving but also leading the way toward economic recovery and growth, as they have done time-and-time again throughout U.S. history. SBA will increase small business access to capital by increasing the number of new or returning lenders in the fiscal year for the flagship 7(a) program (including the Community Advantage pilot program). New and returning lenders are a major component of SBA’s lending portfolio and are essential to growth in the quantity of loans approved and small businesses assisted. Each new or returning lender will expand SBA’s footprint and increase small business access to capital. Attaining a high volume of new and returning lenders from one fiscal year to the next will create a consistent pipeline of SBA loans into the hands of small business. There are barriers and challenges to the SBA in achieving its priority goals: Economic Trends; micro and macro Issues within the Finance Industry as a whole Shrinking workforce in field offices which provide training Recent cases from the OIG reviewing SBA lenders underwriting criteria have triggered a more cautious approach from some lenders with some loan guaranty types||Congress has mandated that small businesses receive 23% of federal government prime contracting dollars, including 5% of prime and subcontracts to Small Disadvantage Businesses; 5% of prime and subcontracts to Women-Owned Small Businesses; 3% of prime and subcontracts to HUBZone Small Businesses; and 3% of prime and subcontracts to Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses Meeting and exceeding the federal government’s small business procurement goals continues to be an Administration priority.  Federal contracting with small businesses is a win-win.  Small businesses get the revenue they need to grow their businesses and create jobs, and the federal government gets the opportunity to work with some of America’s most innovative and nimble small businesses, often times with a direct line to the CEO. In FY 2012, the federal government made real progress toward the 23 percent goal, with 22.25 percent or $89.9 billion in federal contracting dollars going to small businesses compared to 21.65 percent in FY 2011, with significant impact in key areas: For the first time, more agencies than ever before met or surpassed all of their prime contracting goals. Also, for the first time, the federal government exceeded the goal for service disabled veterans. The federal government had the highest percentage of contracts going to Small Disadvantage Businesses to date. As a result of a government wide focus on increasing small business contracting opportunities, during President Obama’s first term (FY2009 - FY2012) the federal government awarded $376.2 billion in federal contracting dollars to small businesses.  This is a $48.1 billion increase over the four preceding years even as we have seen reduced spending overall. Also, since President Obama took office, the SBA has supported more than $132.61 billion in Federal government contracting dollars to small disadvantaged businesses. This represents a 36.6 percent increase when compared to the prior Administration. Under the Bush Administration’s first term, $97.10 billion in federal government contracting dollars were awarded to small disadvantaged businesses. Although we have seen marked success over the last few years, we know more must be done.  Many challenges exist for small businesses seeking to enter the federal procurement marketplace. The unpredictable and changing budget climate is a challenge for small businesses, and SBA is working hard to create an environment where small businesses can be successful in the federal procurement marketplace. The instability and ambiguity caused by Continuing Resolutions make it difficult to agency acquisition staff to plan effectively for small business utilization. Entering the federal supply chain can often be a lengthy and arduous process for many small businesses. SBA’s GCBD unit must implement effective and efficient strategies to monitor the agencies’ progress to goal, support small businesses interested in working with the government and encourage agencies to improve data quality when reporting their contracting activities.  SBA will increase its efforts to collaborate with and hold federal agencies accountable to achieving their goals."
