"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Transportation",21,DOT,"Economic Competitiveness",5252,980,"ENHANCE PRODUCTIVITY AND GROWTH","Improve the contribution of the transportation system to the Nation’s productivity and economic growth by supporting strategic, multi-modal investment decisions and policies that reduce costs, increase reliability and competition, satisfy consumer preferences more efficiently, and advance U.S. transportation interests worldwide.","Based on current economic and demographic forecasts, it is likely that the movement of people and goods within the U.S. and abroad will continue to increase and the transportation sector will continue to enable economic growth and job creation.  The transportation sector contributed approximately $1.466 trillion, or 9.7 percent, to GDP in 2011.  Our Nation must make strategic investments that enable the movement of people and goods more efficiently with full utilization of the existing capacity across all transportation modes. The cornerstones of this strategy are investments in high-performance passenger rail, the development of a national freight strategy, investments in public transportation, mitigating traffic congestion on our highways, and implementing NextGen to improve operations and alleviate airport congestion.",,"Deployment of the En Route Automation Modernization System (FAA):  As of March 27, 2015, FAA achieved Operational Readiness Date (ORD) at all 20 Air Route Traffic Control Centers (ARTCCs).   Highway Congestion (FHWA):  The Travel Time Index (TTI) represents the extra time a driver spends in traffic during congested traffic as compared with light traffic.  A TTI of 1.36 represents an extra 10 minutes, on average, for a trip that usually takes 30 minutes.  Therefore, a lower TTI is better as it means drivers spend less time stuck in traffic.  In FY 2014, the TTI was 1.36 in the 52 metropolitan statistical areas with a population of more than a million that are currently being monitored.  During the four quarters of FY 2015, the average TTI ranged from 1.36 to 1.37. Annually, it appears that the level of urban traffic congestion in FY 2015 increased slightly when compared to FY 2014. This is a measure based on data from individual locations. FHWA research has identified three causes of congestion: events (weather, crashes, construction); demand (fluctuation in traffic flow, special events); and design (traffic control devices, physical bottlenecks.) Spring 2016, FHWA started a rulemaking effort to improve the data for travel times so that DOT and its State partners can better understand where investments and operational changes need to be made.  Passenger Rail Projects Completed and Rail Services Improved  (FRA):  Project sponsors have substantially completed more than 70 projects, resulting in upgraded stations, improved operational efficiency, and enhanced services.  Passenger rail service has been extended to Freeport and Brunswick, Maine, and track, signal, and bridge improvements are now in service on Amtrak’s Vermonter, reducing travel times by nearly 30 minutes. Initial reliability and travel time improvements have also been achieved on the Chicago-St. Louis, Chicago-Detroit, Los Angeles-San Diego, and Philadelphia-Harrisburg corridors.  Passenger Rail Construction Underway Throughout the United States (FRA):   Construction is under way on almost 35 projects for approximately $5 billion in Federal investments. FRA’s partners are investing billions of their own funds to match these Federal investments. Additionally, the freight rail industry invested more than $28 billion of private capital in the Nation’s rail network in 2014, with $29 billion expected in 2015.",Transportation,4331||4751||4121||3761,"FY14-15 : Advance the development of passenger rail in the United States||FY14-15 : Improve the efficiency of the National airspace system at Air Route Traffic Control Centers - ERAM Deployment||FY14-15 : Reduce the rate of aviation accidents||FY14-15 : Reduce the rate of roadway fatalities","High-speed and intercity passenger rail represents an innovative approach to addressing the complex 21st century transportation challenges facing the United States. By 2050, the U.S. population will likely increase by more than 100 million people. Highway and airport congestion are increasing, with related severe economic and environmental impacts. To address these challenges and strengthen the country’s competitive position in an increasingly global economy, the U.S. Department of Transportation has a comprehensive program to develop high-speed and intercity passenger rail. The Federal Railroad Administration manages an approximately $20 billion grant and loan portfolio focused on: Building new high-speed rail corridors that expand and fundamentally improve passenger transportation in the geographic regions they serve; Upgrading existing intercity passenger rail corridors to improve reliability, speed, and frequency of existing services; and Laying the groundwork, through corridor and state planning, for future high-speed rail services. For the High-Speed and Intercity Passenger Rail Program, FRA selected 153 projects across the country, with nearly 85 percent of rail investments concentrated in 6 corridors (San Francisco-Los Angeles, Boston-New York City-Washington, D.C., Seattle-Portland-Eugene, Charlotte-Washington, D.C., Chicago-St. Louis, and Chicago-Detroit). These corridors are in five mega-regions, in which about 65 percent of the U.S. population resides and which will likely absorb the bulk of future population growth. FRA has developed a sophisticated grants management apparatus, laid the foundation for sustainable long-term passenger rail improvements, and strengthened industry capacity to deliver rail projects through technical assistance and strategic initiatives. FRA is strongly committed to robust stakeholder outreach, communication, and collaboration as central components of program management, allowing FRA to identify program improvements, engage in project planning and development, and provide the support necessary for grantees to carry out projects successfully.||Air traffic control systems can improve the efficiency of airspace. As of December 2014, ERAM achieved Initial Operation Capability at all 20 Air Route Traffic Control Centers (ARTCCs).  By March 2015, all 20 Air Route Traffic Control Centers will have achieved Operational Readiness Date (ORD) for ERAM. The En Route Automation Modernization (ERAM) System replaces the 40-year-old En Route HOST Computer System and backup system used at 20 FAA ARTCCs around the country.  ERAM is the main computer system air traffic controllers use to guide airplanes flying at high altitudes.  Air traffic control towers, terminal radar approach control facilities, the Air Traffic Control System Command Center, flight service stations, and other agencies, such as the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense, all connect to and use the information managed by the En Route HOST Computer System.  The original HOST computer software architecture was developed in the late 1960s and was implemented as National Airspace System (NAS) Stage A in the early 1970s. For controllers, ERAM provides a user-friendly interface with customizable displays.  Trajectory modeling is more accurate than in HOST, allowing maximum airspace use, better conflict detection, and improved decision making.  ERAM will substantially increase the number of flights that can be tracked and displayed to controllers from 1,100 to 1,900.  The ERAM system also provides two functionally identical channels with dual redundancy, providing a more robust back-up capability than today's environment.  Coverage will also extend beyond facility boundaries, enabling controllers to handle additional traffic more efficiently because ERAM is designed to process data from up to 64 radars instead of the current 24.  The ERAM system is needed to replace the current HOST system and allow the FAA to continue to provide the high level of safe, reliable air traffic control services that the nation has come to expect; and also put in place the infrastructure necessary to transition the NAS to NextGen.||Aviation fatality rates are at historic lows and continue to drop over time.  However, FAA recognizes the need to continue addressing precursors to accidents in order to continue to improve the current level of safety in the national airspace. In the past, the FAA focused on actual incidents and accidents to identify risk within the aviation system.  The number of accidents has now dropped to a level in which this is a more difficult activity.  The FAA has now developed a proactive approach to identify and address risk.  This is done through dramatically increased air traffic data collection, improved analysis, and the implementation of safety mitigations put in place before an accident occurs.||Background: Reducing roadway fatalities continues to be a top priority at the Department of Transportation (DOT).  Roadway crashes are among the leading causes of death in the United States, especially among young people. Over the past 10 years, there has been a 25 percent reduction in the number of fatalities on the Nation’s roadways. In 2014, there were a projected 32,675 motor vehicle fatalities. This decline in fatalities shows a continuation in the general trend downward in fatalities that started in 2006.  In fact, the projected 2014 fatality rate of 1.08 per 100 vehicle million miles traveled (VMT) is the lowest ever recorded. The importance of improving transportation safety is reflected in DOT’s Strategic Plan. The Department strives to make the U.S. transportation system the safest in the world. DOT will work with all of its stakeholders — transportation agencies, elected officials, law enforcement, industry, safety advocates, novice drivers, the disability and older adult communities, and the public — to reduce transportation-related fatalities and injuries and make our roadway system safe for all users. Progress toward a national roadway safety goal requires collaboration with a diverse group of stakeholders and partners across a range of disciplines.  Within DOT, the relevant operating administrations can leverage the respective resources and expertise to more effectively achieve a safer transportation environment. These organizations include the following: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) provides Federal State and local partners the tools, resources, and information necessary to make sound safety investment decisions and coordinates with States to develop Strategic Highway Safety Plans (SHSP) and implement programs that improve the safety of roadway infrastructure on all public roads. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) promotes safe commercial motor vehicle (CMV) (large truck and bus) operations through education, innovation, regulation, enforcement, financial assistance, partnerships, and full accountability to reduce crashes, injuries, and fatalities on our Nation’s roadways involving CMVs. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) develops vehicle safety standards, conducts research on new vehicle safety and technology, and oversees compliance, defect investigations and recalls.  NHTSA equally focuses on driver behavior by developing effective traffic safety programs, providing grant funds to States to implement these programs, and implementing national high visibility enforcement campaigns. Roadway fatalities impact all road users, including drivers, passengers, pedestrians, bicyclists, motorcyclists, commercial vehicle operators, and those who work to build and maintain the Nation’s four million miles of roadways. The  Federal government is the only entity that has the authority to establish national safety standards for vehicles, regulate interstate motor carriers, and mandate roadway safety features. Stakeholders: FHWA, FMCSA, and NHTSA have formed strategic alliances with partners from a wide array of backgrounds to enhance and forward the Nation’s roadway safety agenda through guidance, technical assistance, and development of resource materials. Many stakeholders currently address transportation safety issues independently, through individual goals, plans, and activities. Some have implemented substantial safety initiatives, and these contributions are vital to maintaining and improving roadway safety. As described in the RSP, involvement by multiple stakeholders provides opportunities for broader public outreach and for the development and implementation of cross-cutting roadway safety strategies reflecting the common interests of many parties. Each partner offers unique strengths and abilities to assist each mode to deliver its programs and leverage resources in protecting the public on the Nation’s roadways.  Progress toward a national roadway safety goal requires collaboration with a diverse group of stakeholders and partners across a range of disciplines.  The agencies within DOT work with a network of partner organizations, such as State Highway Safety Offices, State transportation departments, Tribal governments, local and county traffic engineers, law enforcement agencies, public health associations, safety advocacy groups, the motorcoach industry, hazardous shipping businesses, interstate trucking operations and the auto industry on the development of evidence-based roadway safety programs, projects, and safety standards.  Such collaboration will help to integrate a broad range of factors affecting roadway safety and create more efficient and effective problem-solving synergies across the transportation industry. Challenges: A number of challenges could slow down or even reverse positive trends.  Many States continue to face budget shortfalls and are under tremendous pressure to reduce services, resulting in cut backs to roadway safety programs.  Cutbacks in State, Tribal and local law enforcement agency budgets could weaken national enforcement campaigns and local traffic safety enforcement efforts.  States, Tribes, and local governments must be willing to use data-driven analytical processes to make the best and most effective safety investments. Distracted driving has emerged as a new threat over the past few years as the rise of portable electronic devices has swiftly expanded.   Moreover, as in-vehicle electronic systems become ever more sophisticated and complex, distracted driving could become an even greater threat if it is not addressed in a manner keeping pace with technological advancements.  In fact, a new report by the Governors' Highway Safety Association (GHSA) cites 50 percent of the US adult population now owning smartphones and the wireless industry reports a subscription penetration rate of 102.2 percent (^1).  Also, as the economy continues to gain momentum, more recreational travel and driving may lead to higher crash rates.  Additionally, safety defects in vehicles that are not addressed in a safe and efficiently manner can lead toward more serious vehicle crashes and injuries.  Finally, the repeal of proven life-saving traffic safety laws at the State level, such as universal motorcycle helmet or primary seat belt laws, could also result in higher injuries and fatalities.  Nevertheless, significant opportunities remain for continued progress in reducing roadway fatalities.  The Department will seek new and innovative ways to serve the American people and keep our roadways safe. MAP-21, The Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (P.L 112-141), was signed into law by President Obama on July 6, 2012.  MAP-21 provides an increase in safety funds available for the Highway Safety Improvement Program along with a focus on performance-based programming.  Implementation of MAP-21 will rely heavily on increased partnership across State agencies with DOT.  Additionally, the shift to performance-based programming may require additional effort on the part of some States.  There are also challenges associated with improving safety with local roads and local agencies with Federal-aid program funds, as well as the capacity and willingness of States to use data-driven and analytical processes to make the best safety infrastructure investments. ^1 - 2013 Distracted Driving: Survey of the States, See http://www.ghsa.org/html/publications/survey/distraction 2013.html"
