"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Transportation",21,DOT,"Economic Competitiveness",5252,982,"IMPROVE SYSTEM EFFICIENCY","Improve the efficiency of the Nation’s transportation system through transportation-related research, knowledge sharing, and technology transfer.","Transportation research has little value if its technological outcomes are not transferred to those that might apply them.  We will facilitate the exchange of knowledge and technologies by streamlining processes for partnership agreements and increasing awareness of commercialization and technology transfer opportunities. We will also pursue additional innovations through international dialogues, cooperation agreements with global partners, and international research initiatives.",,"Highway Research  In 2009, FHWA launched Every Day Counts (EDC) in cooperation with AASHTO to speed up the delivery of highway projects and to address the challenges presented by limited budgets. EDC is a State-based model to identify and rapidly deploy proven but underutilized innovations to shorten the project delivery process, enhance roadway safety, reduce congestion and improve environmental sustainability. Through the EDC model, FHWA works with State and local transportation agencies and industry stakeholders to identify a new collection of innovations to champion every two years. Innovations are selected collaboratively by stakeholders, taking into consideration market readiness, impacts, benefits and ease of adoption of the innovation.  After selecting the EDC technologies for deployment, transportation leaders from across the country gather at regional summits to discuss the innovations and commit to finding opportunities to implement the solutions that best fit the needs of their state highway programs.  Every state transportation agency has used eight or more of the 32 innovations promoted under the initiative, and some have adopted more than 20. Several of those innovations are now mainstream practices in many states. The initiative has also fostered a transportation workforce that is adept at putting innovation to work to address transportation challenges.   FHWA launched an Incentive Program that offers technical assistance and funds, of up to $100,000 per State Transportation Innovation Council (STIC) per year, to support the costs of standardizing innovative practices in a State transportation agency or other public STIC stakeholder. In FY 2015, a total of $4.2 Million was awarded to 44 STICs and a FLH TIC to fund a variety of projects. For example, the Vermont Transportation Agency is using STIC Incentive funds to develop a design-build guidance document, the Utah DOT is developing a 3D utility database, and the North Carolina DOT is developing a local public agency certification program.  FHWA also launched the Accelerated Innovation Deployment (AID) Demonstration Program in 2014. The AID Demonstration Program provides incentive funding to offset risk of using an innovation on a project. Under this program, funds are available to implement an innovation in any aspect of highway transportation including planning, financing, operation, structures, materials, pavements, environment, and construction on any project eligible for assistance. The funding award is for the full cost of the innovation on a project up to $1 million. A total of $45 million was allocated to fund the program and, 45 awards have been issued totaling $33.8 million since the program was started.  The Strategic Highway Research Program 2 (SHRP2) complements the EDC and STIC initiatives. In coordination with AASHTO, FHWA is encouraging transportation agencies to field test the results of more than 100 research projects, referred to as SHRP2 Solutions, to determine if they will ultimately be adopted as standard business processes and practices. FHWA’s Implementation Assistance Program (IAP) offers financial and technical assistance to eligible State DOTs, MPOs, local transportation entities and others to help offset the costs and risks of early adoption of innovation.   Rail Research  FRA’s Research and Development (R&D) program enables the safe, reliable, and efficient movement of people and goods through basic and applied research and development of innovations and solutions.  It does so by providing the scientific and engineering basis for safety rulemaking and enforcement.  FRA also collaborates with the railroad industry to develop and implement new technologies and practices that improve overall system safety.  R&D produces long-term benefits. The work that began 5 to 10 years ago contributes to today’s safety record.  Recent examples of successful rail safety R&D include crashworthiness research that led to improved passenger rail car safety; analysis of vehicle-track interaction that led to revised track safety and vehicle qualification standards; development of a freight train braking algorithm that enables achievement of positive train control safety benefits without adversely affecting operations; and safety culture pilot programs that have reduced the number of human factors caused accidents and incidents.",Transportation,,,
