"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"General Services Administration",23,GSA,Savings,540,997,"Reduce resource use and environmental impact","GSA will reduce resource use and enviromental impact.      ","GSA will reduce resource usage by installing and implementing energy and water efficiency improvements in its portfolio; procuring more fuel efficient vehicles; reducing waste generation and diverting waste from landfills; offering more sustainable products and services on its schedules; reducing business travel and making remote meeting technologies more available and accessible; and increasing telework and designing workspaces that increase space utilization.  GSA also serves as a test-bed for innovative technologies and management practices that improve environmental performance while reducing costs. This will be accomplished by testing and, where proven effective, deploying Green Proving Ground building technologies and by making innovative products and services available and affordable to customer agencies.     Strategies:    	Employ new technologies and building management practices that are both cost-effective and environmentally responsible. 	Expand the use of alternative fuel vehicles governmentwide and ensure that low-cost, high-efficiency vehicle options are available to customer agencies. 	Building on its capability to deliver comprehensive products and services across Government at the best value possible, GSA will continue to expand its offerings of sustainable products. Assist federal agencies in meeting environmental sustainability purchasing requirements by identifying and increasing the availability of green products and services. 	Enhance the usefulness of energy efficiency research, strategies, practices, and tools provided to federal agencies by improving existing and deploying new resources that will enable better measurement of the use and impact of the resources provided; and obtaining user feedback, and disseminating research, strategies, practices and tools.      Key Performance Goals:   	Green the federal supply chain 	Reduce total water consumption 	Reduce total energy purchased 	Reduce use of petroleum-based fuel 	Purchase alternative fuel vehicles 	Provide useful energy efficiency information and tools to federal agencies      Contributing Programs:    	Assisted Acquisition 	Building Operations 	Construction and Acquisition of Facilities 	General Supplies and Services 	Government-wide Policy 	Integrated Technology Services 	Repairs and Alterations 	Travel, Motor Vehicle and Card Services","Public Buildings Service (PBS) ","GSA has determined that performance toward this objective is making noteworthy progress. GSA expects to meet its long term goal to reduce energy intensity (usage by square foot) in its building portfolio by 30% from a baseline set in FY2003. GSA is continuing to reduce energy use by implementing new technologies and systems (e.g., advance metering), awarding Energy Savings Performance Contracts, installing onsite renewable energy at federal sites, and working with other agencies to create volume discounts for increased renewable energy purchases. In FY 2015, GSA met the target for a 30 percent reduction in energy intensity in its building portfolio from the baseline set in FY 2003.      GSA is also converging building, monitoring, and control systems infrastructure to enable smarter and more efficient operations.  GSA has achieved its target towards improving the sustainability of the federal supply chain by reporting the sales of green products and service offerings at 8.82 percent of total business volume in FY 2015 from the baseline of 2.4percent in FY 2010. GSA expanded its offerings of green products through its Federal Strategic Sourcing Initiative offerings, including the first ever use of the social cost of carbon in evaluating the offers for the Domestic Delivery Services, third generation, Blanket Purchase Agreements. GSA also expanded the functionality of the Green Procurement Compilation -- the one-stop shop for federal agencies to identify green product requirements, options for purchasing those products, options for purchasing green services, and related information. GSA created a focused communications email campaign to educate customers about buying green products through GSA. The agency will continue to identify additional sustainable product and service offerings and use focused communications to educate federal agencies about available green products and services and where they can be purchased.  GSA supported federal customers in purchasing alternative fuel vehicles to reduce the environmental impact of the federal fleet. Nearly 83 percent of the vehicles purchased by GSA this fiscal year were classified as alternative fuel vehicles.  To assist federal agencies, GSA implemented user-friendly applications to manage energy use for fleet and office space.  The Federal Automotive Statistical Tool (FAST) provides federal departments agencies with an annual data collection tool that summarizes petroleum usage by their vehicle fleet. The Sustainable Facilities Tool (SFTool) provides an online resource for government or private sector organizations to identify and prioritize cost-effective green building and procurement strategies.   Strategic Objective Next Steps. GSA will take the following actions in support of this strategic objective over the next two years:   	At least 80% of all vehicles procured by FAS will be alternative fuel vehicles 	Continue to leverage alternative financing for cost saving energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions 	Serve as a test bed for sustainable technology through continued operation of the Green Proving Ground Program 	Implement the Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS) to improve efficiency in building operations 	Establish and roll out action plans to address buildings in GSA portfolio that have high energy intensity consumption 	Work with supplier community to improve compliance and standardization of green product labels 	As part of Category Management, implement sustainable products, supplier sustainability reporting, and other sustainability initiatives in each FAS category 	Continue to maintain and expand the Green Procurement Compilation, including expanding listings of agency-specific requirements 	Improve GSA sustainable acquisition policies and programs, including tracking and measuring sustainable acquisition targets 	Issue a final rule on electronic stewardship and identify electronic waste recycling standards for the federal government to prevent potential harmful impacts that could result from electronic waste being disposed of in landfills","Energy||Natural Resources and Environment||General Government||Management",,,
