<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?><data><Agency_Priority_Goal><Agency_ID>17</Agency_ID><Agency_Name>Environmental Protection Agency</Agency_Name><Agency_Priority_Goal_ID>35422</Agency_Priority_Goal_ID><Fiscal_Year>FY16-17</Fiscal_Year><APG_Header>Assess and reduce risks posed by chemicals and promote the use of safer chemicals in commerce. </APG_Header><APG_Statement>By September 30, 2017, the EPA will complete more than 3,400 assessments of pesticides and other commercially available chemicals to evaluate risks they may pose to human health and the environment.&amp;nbsp;These assessments are essential in determining whether products containing these chemicals can be used safely for commercial, agricultural, and/or industrial uses. For example, assessments can help determine the potential for chemicals to disrupt endocrine systems or to pose risks to honey bees and other pollinators by outdoor use of pesticides.
</APG_Statement><APG_Overview>Improving chemical safety is one of the most critical aspects of EPA’s work to protect human health and the environment and advance a sustainable future. Three statutes provide EPA the authority to regulate chemicals: The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) and the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (FFDCA) govern the regulation of pesticides and the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) governs regulation of other commercial chemicals. This APG addresses a key component of EPA’s chemical strategy – using all available information to assess whether chemicals entering or already being used in commerce pose risks to human health and the environment.&amp;nbsp; EPA’s work on this critical issue is organized into three components:

•&amp;nbsp;Assessing pesticides safety and effectiveness in determining whether to register and re-evaluate them for commercial use. Pesticides distributed and sold in the United States must generally be registered by EPA, based on scientific data showing that they will not cause unreasonable risks to human health, workers, or the environment when used as directed on product labeling.&amp;nbsp; The registration and registration review programs ensure that chemicals coming to and now available on the market meet current safety standards and, as the ability to assess risk evolves and as policies and practices change, all registered pesticides continue to meet the statutory standard of no unreasonable adverse effects, that is, continue to be safe when used according to the label.&amp;nbsp; Although changes in science, public policy, and pesticide use practices will occur over time, such changes could impact EPA’s ability to make determinations in a timely manner.&amp;nbsp;

Through the registration review program, the Agency periodically reevaluates (at least every fifteen years) pesticides to make sure that as change occurs, products in the marketplace can still be used safely.&amp;nbsp; The Office of Pesticide Programs is continuously challenged to improve its processes, science, and information management while maintaining a collaborative and open process for decision-making to ensure safety to human health and the environment.&amp;nbsp; Please refer to section 4 for a more detailed discussion of the challenges presented by implementing the Endangered Species Act (ESA), Endocrine Disruptor Screening Program (EDSP) and White House Pollinator Health Strategy concerns.&amp;nbsp; While challenging, implementing solutions to these issues will improve the Agency’s processes and allow for an open public venue for determining that products coming to market as well as those currently in the marketplace can be used safely.

•&amp;nbsp;Assessing the safety of commercial chemicals, using the authorities of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA).

o&amp;nbsp;TSCA Work Plan Assessments: As part of EPA’s chemical safety program, EPA has identified a work plan of chemicals for assessment. Originally released in March 2012, and updated in October 2014, EPA’s TSCA Work Plan helps focus and direct the activities of its Existing Chemicals Program. The Agency committed to assess the chemicals in every-day, wide spread use to which our people, our communities and our environment may be exposed, starting with those on the Work Plan. The findings of these assessments guide decisions on whether risk reduction actions are needed to address risks to human health or the environment from exposure to particular chemical uses or groups of chemicals.&amp;nbsp; More information about the TSCA Work Plan is available at: http://www.epa.gov/oppt/existingchemicals/pubs/workplans.html.

o&amp;nbsp;TSCA Section 5 (New Chemicals) Notice Assessments: In FY 2016 and FY 2017, the EPA will continue to fulfill its mandate under TSCA Section 5 to manage the potential risk to human health and the environment from chemicals to be introduced into the marketplace. Functioning as a “gatekeeper,” the EPA can identify conditions, up to and including a ban on production, to be placed on the use of a new chemical before it is entered into commerce. Anyone who plans to manufacture (including import) a new chemical substance for a non-exempt commercial purpose is required by section 5 of TSCA to provide EPA with notice before initiating the activity. This premanufacture notice, or PMN, can include information such as specific chemical identity, use, anticipated production volume, exposure and release information and existing available test data. Each year, the EPA receives approximately 1,000 new chemical notices under section 5, and must review and assess each PMN within 90 days of receipt. More information about the TSCA New Chemicals Program is available at: http://www.epa.gov/oppt/newchems/index.htm.

•&amp;nbsp;Assessing whether chemicals have the potential to disrupt endocrine systems.&amp;nbsp; Congress directed the agency to develop the Endocrine Disruptors Screening Program (EDSP) in accordance with the Food Quality Protection Act of 1996. The agency is employing high-throughput and computational methods to evaluate endocrine activity to screen over 10,000 chemicals for potential endocrine activity using validated test methods. The program involves requiring registrants to generate screening data for chemicals suspected of having effects on the endocrine system.&amp;nbsp; In setting up the EDSP, it took several years to determine the appropriate tests, establish protocols, issue tests orders requiring these data, develop the data and review the data.&amp;nbsp; To date, about 50 pesticides have been tested and reviewed.&amp;nbsp; When a chemical is determined to be an endocrine disruptor, it will be incorporated into risk assessments and considered in the risk management decision for the chemical.
</APG_Overview><Goal_Leaders><Goal_Leader><goal_leader_name>Louise P. Wise </goal_leader_name><goal_leader_title>Deputy Assistant Administrator </goal_leader_title><goal_leader_org>Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention</goal_leader_org></Goal_Leader></Goal_Leaders><next_steps>Pesticides

EPA will continue the development of chemical specific review work plans following docket openings, completing risk assessments that meet current regulatory and scientific standards and making risk management decisions.&amp;nbsp; OPP expects to meet annual targets as the program works to streamline the process and improve efficiencies in the development of risk assessments.&amp;nbsp;

EPA plans to release the final BEs for the first 3 pilot chemicals and the draft BEs for the next 2 pilot chemicals (carbaryl and methomyl) in FY 2017. In collaboration with our regulatory partners in Canada and California, EPA will release a status update for the imidacloprid pollinator assessment and the draft pollinator risk assessments for clothianidin, thiamethoxam, and dinotefuran in FY 2017. EPA will continue to collaborate with the Services and USDA on methods for conducting the BOs for the first three pilot chemicals due in FY 2018.

EDSP

EPA will prepare for and host a FIFRA Science Advisory Panel (SAP) meeting (including all background and supporting materials) in spring 2017 as an independent scientific peer review step and continue development and validation of high throughput assays and computational tools for the estrogen, androgen, steroidogenesis and thyroid pathways.

TSCA

The new TSCA amendments require significant process changes for both new and existing chemical assessments.&amp;nbsp; EPA is evaluating how the law affects TSCA Work Plan chemical assessments and TSCA Section 5 new chemical reviews, with the aim of identifying changes needed to ensure that risk evaluations and new chemical reviews are conducted in accordance with statutory requirements.

No existing chemical assessments were completed in FY 2016 or expected in FY 2017. Therefore, the target for the Existing Chemicals program is being deleted for the duration of this APG. The EPA is evaluating how the law TSCA affects assessments and new chemical reviews, with the aim of identifying changes to ensure that risk evaluations, and new chemical reviews are conducted in accordance with statutory requirements.

The new law requires that EPA initiate risk evaluations for 10 chemicals within 180 days of enactment (December 19, 2016) and to complete these within 3.5 years.&amp;nbsp; By end of FCY 2019, EPA must have at least 20 Risk Evaluations underway.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;

EPA expects to be able to release the first set of risk evaluations for TSCA Work Plan chemicals under the new law in about three years; in the meantime, interim work products (e.g., Scoping documents, draft risk evaluations) will be published according to the schedule set forth in the new law.
</next_steps><progress_update>Pesticides

EPA, in collaboration with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, National Marine Fisheries Service (the Services) and USDA, reviewed the feedback from the 2-day ESA stakeholder workshop held in June 2016 and identified a number of short-term recommendations that will be considered for integration into the final biological evaluations (BEs) for chlorpyrifos, diazinon, and malathion and draft BEs for carbaryl and methomyl. EPA has started addressing public comments on the first 3 draft BEs and is making improvements to existing approaches, including to the models and tools used to automate the process for making effects determination for over 1800 endangered species. EPA, the Services, and USDA held a 3-day interagency workshop to discuss interim methods for conducting biological opinions (BOs) for the first 3 pilot chemicals. The Biological Evaluation (BE) documents EPA's conclusions and rationale regarding the potential effects of the federal action (i.e., pesticide registration according to the product label) on endangered species and designated critical habitat. If EPA determines that the action is likely to adversely affect endangered species, it must provide a BE to the Services as part of formal consultation. In response to the BE, the Services prepare a Biological Opinion recommending reasonable alternatives and measures necessary to avoid jeopardizing and minimizing &quot;take&quot; of endangered species.

Draft Risk Assessments: In Q4, 26 draft risk assessments were completed. Six of those counted in Q4 had been anticipated for completion in Q3 however the final documents where not signed until Q4.&amp;nbsp; The Q3 actual result was restated to reflect this. The other part of the increase is reflective of the program pushing to expedite draft risk assessments in order to meet the 2022 deadline on decisions.

PRIA Risk Assessments: In Q4, there were 31 PRIA risk assessments instead of the 40 estimated. PRIA is dependent on the number of external requests received, rather than a planned workload. The targets were projected based on the average of what was received over the prior few years as best estimate of what can be expected.

EDSP

No estrogen pathway screening decisions were projected to be completed using high throughput and computational methods in FY 2016. In FY 2016, OSCPP continued development and validation of high throughput assays and computational tools for the estrogen, androgen, and thyroid pathways; developed performance-based test guidelines (PBTGs) using reference chemicals based on high throughput assays and computational models; and continued to coordinate across EPA, the U.S. government and with International partners to develop screening tools and tests for screening chemicals for potential endocrine disruption.

TSCA

EPA&amp;nbsp; completed 107 TSCA Section 5 Notice assessments in Q4 relative to a target of 250, for a total of 808 completed over the entire fiscal year. The Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act (enacted June 22, 2016), which significantly amended the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), resulted in Section 5 notifications that had not officially completed review by the date of enactment (more than 300) being reassessed by EPA under the new law.&amp;nbsp; In addition, EPA has continuing responsibilities to address all new notifications received.&amp;nbsp; The new law’s requirements on affirmative determinations and conditions of use also have resulted in significant changes to the process.&amp;nbsp; The new law now requires that an affirmative determination be made by EPA on whether a new chemical substance will present, may not present, or is not likely to present an unreasonable risk before it can proceed to the marketplace.&amp;nbsp;

The Agency has made every effort to complete Section 5 new chemical reviews and make appropriate determinations in a timely manner.&amp;nbsp; However, the changes instituted by the new TSCA law have temporarily slowed completion of EPA’s reviews.&amp;nbsp; EPA has had to expeditiously determine how the law affects ongoing reviews and to identify and implement changes needed to ensure that both current and future reviews are conducted in accordance with the new law.

In FY 2016, EPA reviewed comments received on the Problem Formulation documents published in FY 2015 as part of its planning for the final Risk Assessments.&amp;nbsp; In FY 2015, the EPA had established a new step (problem formulation) for existing chemical assessments, which provided for additional public input to inform the risk assessments. With enactment of the TSCA amendments, the EPA has shifted its workload to expediting the development of the extensive framework needed to implement the new statutory requirements.&amp;nbsp; As a result of these two key shifts, no existing TSCA Work Plan chemical assessments were completed in FY 2016.&amp;nbsp; A key priority is to develop new procedures for developing and publishing “Scoping” documents, which are equivalent to the prior Problem Formulation documents.&amp;nbsp; The agency will review all comments previously received on Problem Formulation documents in the course of developing Scoping documents for release in FY 2017.
</progress_update><themes><theme>Natural Resources and Environment</theme></themes><contributing_programs_and_other_factors>A)&amp;nbsp;Contributing programs within the agency

PESTICIDES: The Office of Pesticide Programs (OPP) within the EPA’s Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention (OCSPP) is responsible for implementing the pesticide registration and registration review programs.&amp;nbsp; OPP may engage other EPA offices when drafting its risk assessments to ensure compliance with appropriate statutes/regulations and to obtain any relevant information.&amp;nbsp; Office of Water (OW) supports the pesticide programs by providing information on water quality standards and water monitoring data on some pesticide active ingredients.&amp;nbsp; Office of Research and Development (ORD) supports OPP by providing technical, scientific expertise on emerging scientific issues related to the pesticide active ingredients being reviewed.

TSCA: The Director, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (OPPT), has the lead responsibility for accomplishing the work associated with the TSCA Indicators. Contributing agency programs will vary depending on the particular chemical and uses being assessed.&amp;nbsp; The Office of Research and Development (ORD), will likely be involved in many of the assessments.&amp;nbsp; Other EPA offices that may be involved in specific Work Plan assessments include the Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response, Office of Water, Office of Air and Radiation, Office of Policy, and regional offices.

EDSP: The Office of Science Coordination and Policy (OSCP), Office of Pesticide Programs (OPP), and Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (OPPT) contribute to this goal and take positive action to protect human health and the environment from adverse effects associated with harmful levels of chemical exposure.&amp;nbsp; The OSCP collaborates with the Office of Research and Development (ORD) and Office of Water (OW) to deliver and apply advanced toxicological methods that swiftly ensure public health and wildlife protection from exposure to harmful chemicals.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;


B)&amp;nbsp;Contributing programs or partners outside the agency

PESTICIDES: Several outside organizations contribute to the development of pesticide risk assessments as part of the EPA’s registration review program, as follows:
•&amp;nbsp;The US Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service contribute to EPA’s draft risk assessments by providing informal consultation when EPA’s evaluation has identified some uses of individual pesticides which may adversely affect or are likely to adversely affect federally listed species and habitats.
•&amp;nbsp;The US Department of Agriculture contributes to EPA’s draft risk assessments by providing information on pesticide use/usage critical to fully understanding the use pattern of some pesticides, particularly as that use pattern may change over time.
•&amp;nbsp;EPA often collaborates with Canada’s Pest Management Regulatory Agency (PMRA) and other international co-regulators to share information in support of both organizations’ risk assessments. As an example, EPA in collaboration with PMRA published a harmonized guidance on assessing risks of pesticides to bees. The process described in the harmonized guidance and the studies reflects a wider collaboration with international regulatory partners in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Efforts such as this ultimately helps promote international consistency in decision making and reduces the existence of trade barriers.

TSCA: In addition to partnering with other EPA Offices, OPPT is partnering with other Agencies doing assessments of the same chemicals for different mandates leveraging resources and reducing duplication to the degree possible. These other agencies partners include the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).

EDSP: To achieve the agency’s goal to complete screening determinations under the Endocrine Disruptors Screening Program, the EPA also collaborates with other federal agencies, and International partners such as National Institutes of Health (NIH), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), and other agencies to deliver and apply high-throughput and computational methods to evaluate endocrine activity of environmental chemicals.

C)&amp;nbsp;Key barriers and challenges

PESTICIDES: As science, risk assessment methodology, and Agency policy related to pesticides continually evolve and improve over time, EPA faces the challenge of maintaining consistency between risk assessments produced at the beginning and at the end of the 15-year registration review cycle.&amp;nbsp; The EPA generally must obtain scientific data from pesticide registrants in order to ensure the accuracy of its evaluation of pesticide uses.&amp;nbsp; When data are not received in a timely manner, EPA’s draft risk assessments may be delayed.&amp;nbsp; In many cases, EPA faces uncertainty on the extent to which the regulated community will submit information required for risk assessment in a timely manner.&amp;nbsp; Although EPA issues data call-ins (DCI) that provide legally binding due dates for pesticide registrants to submit information, registrant responses may be delayed due to a variety of factors such as lab availability, the quality of the data submitted, and business/budget constraints.&amp;nbsp; When lawsuits and petitions are filed with the agency on specific pesticide active ingredients, these actions often introduce uncertainty related to the timing of the development of draft risk assessments and the availability of resources needed to conduct the risk assessment.&amp;nbsp;

A significant challenge for the program is the implementation of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) and staying current on statutorily mandated deadlines. In response, on April 30, 2013 the National Academy of Sciences’ National Research Council (NRC) released recommendations for assessing risks from pesticides to listed species under the ESA and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA).&amp;nbsp; Four agencies, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) (collectively the Services) are working collaboratively to develop and implement interim scientific approaches to evaluate the potential impacts of pesticides to endangered and threatened species, based on the NRC report recommendations.&amp;nbsp; Currently, the agencies are applying the interim scientific methods to nationwide consultations for five pesticides (carbaryl, chlorpyrifos, diazinon, malathion, and methomyl).&amp;nbsp; Once the interim scientific approaches are vetted in the context of the first five nationwide consultations, EPA will use the agreed upon approach to include national-level ESA effects determinations to assess risks to listed species as part of the overall ecological risk assessments in registration review.&amp;nbsp; EPA will consult with the Services as appropriate, based on the effects determination.

Pollinator protection is a significant challenge to OPP and is one of its highest priorities.&amp;nbsp; We are working along with other Agencies to implement the Pollinator Health Strategy released by the White House on May 19, 2015.&amp;nbsp; EPA will work to protect pollinators from pesticide risks through regulatory action, voluntary changes to pesticide use by registrants, research programs and public/private partnerships, all of which are aimed at better understanding and mitigating the factors associated with declining pollinator health.


TSCA:&amp;nbsp;
•&amp;nbsp; TSCA Work Plan Assessments (Existing Chemicals). The EPA faces several barriers and challenges in meeting its TSCA Work Plan chemical assessment goals.&amp;nbsp; Challenges reside in two main areas: resources and scientific information.&amp;nbsp; The assessments are dependent on both staff and contract resources. The availability of resources is related to the unique level of complexity of each assessment.&amp;nbsp; In addition, the results of scientific assessments are usually impossible to predict in advance.&amp;nbsp; Until EPA actually starts doing an assessment of a chemical, it is hard to know whether the available data will allow the agency to state with confidence that a chemical does or does not present risks of concern.

•&amp;nbsp;TSCA Section 5 Notice Assessments (New Chemicals). The number of assessments of TSCA Section 5 Notices is dependent on external parties submitting PMNs to the EPA. Fluctuations in the economy or the marketplace can lead to reduced or increased numbers of PMNs received by the EPA. To address this, the EPA has set the annual Agency Priority Goal target for this subcomponent at the lowest number of PMN submissions received in prior years (FY 2010). Overachievement of this subcomponent may occur as EPA must review and assess all PMNs received within 90 days of receipt, and, as noted, EPA does not control the number of PMNs submitted. Additionally, newer more complex forms of Section 5 Notices (e.g. biotechnology submissions, such as Microbial Commercial Activity Notices (MCAN)) pose a potential challenge to achieving the targets because they typically include more data to evaluate and the science behind the synthetic biology and uses is more complicated. Accordingly, these submissions require more attention and more unique and specialized expertise than standard PMN reviews.&amp;nbsp; The Agency expects the numbers of these types of submissions to grow during the time frame for this APG.


EDSP: The Office of Science Coordination and Policy (OSCP) leads the Endocrine Disruptors Screening program (EDSP) and collaborates with Office of Research and Development (ORD), National Institutes of Health (NIH), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and other agencies to apply high throughput and computational methods to evaluate endocrine disrupting potential of environmental chemicals. Coordination across EPA and with partners across the U.S. Government demands active communications to prevent barriers between the agencies and promote effective communication. The work of the Endocrine Disruptors Screening Program (EDSP) is also coordinated with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and other International partners.
</contributing_programs_and_other_factors></Agency_Priority_Goal><Strategic_Goals><Strategic_Goal><id>3317</id><strategic_goal_header>Ensuring the Safety of Chemicals and Preventing Pollution</strategic_goal_header><strategic_goal_statement>Reduce the risk and increase the safety of chemicals and prevent pollution at the source.  
</strategic_goal_statement><strategic_goal_overview>The Agency’s chemical safety and pollution prevention programs are at the forefront of EPA’s efforts to advance a sustainable future.  Chemicals are often released into the environment as a result of their manufacture, processing, use, and disposal.  The Agency uses a variety of approaches and tools to assess, prevent, and reduce chemical releases and exposures (e.g., conducting risk assessments, assessing chemical alternatives, and taking other risk management actions).  The Agency engages and empowers a variety of stakeholders and partners to drive innovation and address related social and economic issues, especially in communities with vulnerable populations or environmental justice concerns.  Vulnerable populations, including low-income and minority and indigenous populations, may be disproportionately impacted by, and thus particularly at risk from, exposure to chemicals.  In addition, research shows that children receive greater relative exposures to chemicals because they inhale or ingest more air, food, and water on a body-weight basis than adults do.[1]  The Agency empowers stakeholders by working to ensure access to chemical data and other information, analytical tools, and other forms of expertise.  The Agency communicates frequently with other federal agencies to share information and coordinate proposed and ongoing activities and will continue to expand these efforts for more effective governance.
 
Chemicals are involved in the production of everything from our homes and cars to the cell phones we carry and the food we eat.  Thousands of chemicals have become ubiquitous in our everyday lives and everyday products, and are present in our environment and our bodies.  The Agency continues to believe that the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) should be modernized to strengthen the tools available in TSCA and give EPA the mechanisms and authorities to expeditiously target and promptly assess and regulate new and existing chemicals.[2]  There remain large, troubling gaps in the available data and state of knowledge on many widely used chemicals in commerce, and EPA’s authority to require development and submission of information and testing data is limited by legal hurdles and procedural requirements.  Accordingly, the Administration in September 2009 issued a statement on Essential Principles for Reform of Chemicals Management Legislation to help inform efforts by the Congress to reauthorize and strengthen TSCA. 
 
Another statute that helps EPA in its work to address chemical risks is the 1990 Pollution Prevention Act (PPA).[3]  Under this law, which established as a national policy the prevention of pollution before it is generated, EPA fosters the development of pollution prevention (P2) solutions and promotes increased use of those solutions.  P2 solutions include safer, greener materials and products, and improved practices, such as conservation techniques and reuse and remanufacturing of hazardous secondary materials in lieu of their discard.  These strategies have proven highly effective in advancing sustainability, resulting in major reductions in hazardous materials, greenhouse gases, and water use.  These strategies have simultaneously increased the availability and use of safer chemicals and products, and helped businesses increase job growth and competitiveness.  EPA will continue these successful strategies by:  providing technical assistance and training to states, tribes, businesses, and others on P2 solutions; developing resources and tools, such as calculators and guidelines, to facilitate development and use of P2 solutions; and, further enhancing the ability of the public and the business sector to make environmentally friendly purchasing decisions. 
 
End Notes:
The following links are to selected government sources that provide useful information on environmental health risks to children:
A Framework for Assessing Health Risk of Environmental Exposures to Children (2006), available at  http://cfpub.epa.gov/ncea/risk/recordisplay.cfm?deid=158363.
Child-Specific Exposure Factors Handbook (2008), available at  http://cfpub.epa.gov/ncea/risk/recordisplay.cfm?deid=199243.
Guidance on Selecting Age Groups for Monitoring and Assessing Childhood Exposures to Environmental Contaminants (2005), available at http://www.epa.gov/raf/publications/guidance-on-selecting-age-groups.htm.
Guide to Considering Children's Health When Developing EPA Actions:  Implementing Executive Order 13045 and EPA's Policy on Evaluating Health Risks to Children (2006), available at  http://yosemite.epa.gov/ochp/ochpweb.nsf/content/ADPguide.htm/$File/EPA_ADP_Guide_508.pdf.
Policy on Evaluating Risk to Children (1995), available at  http://www.epa.gov/spc/2poleval.htm.
Summary Report of the Technical Workshop on Issues Associated with Considering Developmental Changes in Behavior and Anatomy when Assessing Exposure to Children (2001), available at http://www.epa.gov/raf/publications/sum-report-tech-wrkshp-development-changes-behavior.htm.
Supplemental Guidance for Assessing Susceptibility from Early-Life Exposure to Carcinogens (2005), available at http://www.epa.gov/raf/publications/cancer_guidelines/sup-guidance-early-life-exp-carcinogens.htm.
Essential Principles for Reform of Chemicals Management Legislation.  Available at http://www.epa.gov/oppt/existingchemicals/pubs/principles.html.
The text of the Pollution Prevention Act (PPA) can be found at http://www.epa.gov/p2/pubs/p2policy/act1990.htm.
</strategic_goal_overview><strategic_goal_sequence>4</strategic_goal_sequence></Strategic_Goal></Strategic_Goals><Strategic_Objectives><Strategic_Objective><id>3318</id><objective_header>Ensure Chemical Safety</objective_header><objective_statement>Reduce the risk and increase the safety of chemicals that enter our products, our environment, and our bodies.
</objective_statement><objective_overview>Chemical safety remains one of EPA’s highest priorities.  EPA employs a variety of strategies under several statutes to ensure the safety of chemicals, adequately protect against unreasonable public health or environmental risks, and foster sustainability.  These include:
 
Acting under TSCA to ensure that new industrial and commercial chemicals do not pose unreasonable risk before they are introduced into commerce;
Assessing existing chemicals already in use before TSCA took effect (62,000 chemicals were already in use in commerce before 1978) and acting to reduce identified risks and to identify and promote safer alternatives;
Empowering the public and decision makers by making chemical safety information more widely available and usable;
Acting under the Federal Insecticide, Rodenticide, and Fungicide Act (FIFRA) and the Endangered Species Act to ensure that pesticides are used safely and effectively; and,
Developing and applying protocols to assess chemicals’ potential to interact with the endocrine system.
 
EPA uses predictive techniques to assess the safety of new chemicals in the face of information limitations imposed by TSCA.  More daunting has been the challenge of assessing and acting where needed on the more than 60,000 existing chemicals “grandfathered” under the statute.[1]  On that front, the Agency has made considerable progress in recent years, working in cooperation with stakeholders by using all available information to put these chemicals through a prioritization methodology.  This effort led to the identification of a set of more than 80 chemicals (TSCA work plan chemicals) for further assessment.  EPA believes that these are the chemicals most in need of  risk assessment and that adequate data exist for that purpose.  The first five risk assessments for TSCA work plan chemicals were made available by EPA for public and peer review less than a year after they were publicly identified for assessment.  Assessments of 23 additional chemicals—including 20 flame retardants—were announced in 2013.  Looking forward, EPA plans to assess all of the remaining work plan chemicals to initiate risk management actions as appropriate, and  identify additional work plan chemicals for subsequent priority assessment.  EPA is establishing an FY 2014-2015 Agency Priority Goal for this effort.[2]
 
Recognizing the crucial role that the public, state, tribal, and local partners, institutions, and industry play in ensuring chemical safety, EPA has expanded web access to the Agency’s chemical information and assessment tools, with a focus on identifying safer chemicals.  At the same time, two newly developed electronic tools will greatly improve data quality and public accessibility.  These are the Chemical Information System (CIS), which will speed the Agency’s transition to electronic reporting and processing for required chemical safety information, and the interactive ChemView Portal, which will enable both internal and external users to access TSCA chemical data stored in EPA systems quickly and easily.  Planned enhancements to CIS will extend electronic reporting to nearly all required TSCA submissions and integrate the system with scientific tools, dashboards, and models used in making chemical management decisions.  In addition, EPA is working to expand the ChemView Portal to further broaden public access to TSCA chemical information, and has plans to enable faster, automated posting of non-confidential TSCA data to EPA’s public websites.  These electronic tools are components of the Agency’s Next Generation Compliance initiative, aimed at designing more effective regulations that are easier to implement for improving compliance and environmental outcomes throughout the life cycle of hazardous materials; shifting toward electronic reporting by regulated entities to ensure more accurate, complete, and timely information; and expanding transparency.
 
EPA will make major strides in guarding against exposure to chemicals that continue to pose potential risks to human health and the environment even after their hazards have been identified and certain uses have been phased out.  For example, to continue to reduce childhood blood lead levels, EPA is working in partnership with states and tribes to certify hundreds of thousands of renovators and contractors on lead hazard management.  More than 461,000 individuals have been certified by EPA alone, and nearly 130,000 firms have been certified by EPA and the states through April 2013.   Certification coupled with public outreach is intended to expand public awareness of lead-based paint risks as well as the requirements for the use of lead-safe practices in renovation, remodeling, and painting activities in millions of older homes.[3,4]
 
On a broader scale, EPA is looking comprehensively across statutes to determine the best tools to apply to specific problems.  For example, the Agency is exploring how to use FIFRA and TSCA to ensure that drinking water is protected from pesticides and industrial chemicals, and that chemicals found in drinking water are being screened for endocrine disrupting properties using the authorities of the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) (including issuance of test orders), the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA), and FIFRA.
 
In addition, EPA is continuing its work to increase the safety of chemicals and prevent pollution on an international scale.  This is being accomplished primarily through cooperative engagement with international bodies such as the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) on scientific and technical issues.  The key focus areas include harmonization of chemical test guidelines, regulatory coordination, negotiation, and implementation of global/regional standards, and instruments and assistance on pollution prevention activities.  EPA is working collaboratively with stakeholders both domestically and internationally to develop approaches to better assess nanomaterials[5], including work with the OECD on internationally harmonized test guidelines.
 
Over the next 4 years, EPA will manage a comprehensive pesticide risk reduction program through science-based registration and reevaluation processes, a worker safety program, certification and training activities, and support for integrated pest management.
 
EPA’s current pesticide review processes focus on ensuring that pesticide registrations comply with the Endangered Species Act and achieve broader Agency objectives for water quality protection.  The review processes will continue to place emphasis on the protection of potentially sensitive populations, such as children, by reducing exposures from pesticides used in and around homes, schools, and other public areas.
 
EPA’s new data requirement rule for antimicrobial pesticides will ensure that pesticide risk management decisions are based on the best available science and will contribute to a more efficient and transparent registration process through increased certainty about the data requirements.  EPA’s review processes ensure that pesticides can be used safely and are available for use to maintain a safe and affordable food supply, to address public health outbreaks, and to minimize property damage that can occur from insects and pests.[6]
 
EPA has reviewed its agricultural worker protection regulation and its pesticide applicator certification regulation and will publish for public comment proposed changes to both.  The proposed rulemakings are designed to ensure improved pesticide worker safety standards and pesticide applicator competency standards in the coming years.
 
EPA is implementing a comprehensive testing program to screen for chemicals’ potential to interact with the endocrine system.[7]  In response to a recently concluded program evaluation, EPA has developed a comprehensive management plan for the endocrine disruptor screening program, providing a clear workplan, projected milestones, and vision for developing a more efficient and effective screening and testing program through the application of computational toxicology methods.  Use of these methods may have the added benefit of helping to reduce the need for animal testing when conducting chemical screening and risk assessment.
 
To ensure the continued effectiveness of the various chemical programs, EPA will conduct several evaluations over the next 4 years.  In FY 2014, EPA will initiate a review of critical factors that have an impact on the effectiveness of the Agency’s risk assessment efforts for TSCA work plan chemicals.  In FY 2015, the Agency will evaluate the effectiveness of recently implemented efficiencies to the registration review process to identify further enhancements and efficiencies to the process.  EPA will also conduct biennial reviews in 2015 and 2017 to determine whether the level of fees charged to the submitters of New Chemical Pre-Manufacture Notices and to the applicants for certification to perform lead renovation, repair, and painting work and lead abatement work are appropriate.
 
External Factors and Emerging Issues
As we look to the future, it is important to continue working together with Congress and stakeholders to modernize and strengthen the tools available under TSCA to prevent harmful chemicals from entering the marketplace and to increase confidence that those chemicals that remain are safe and do not endanger the environment or human health, especially for consumers, workers, and sensitive subpopulations like children.  Potential legislative action to reauthorize TSCA is both a key external factor and a key emerging issue.  Consistent with the Administration’s essential principles, EPA’s authority under TSCA should be modernized and strengthened to increase confidence that chemicals used in commerce are safe and do not endanger public health and welfare.  EPA is committed to working with the Congress, members of the public, the environmental community, and industry to reauthorize TSCA.
On April 30, 2013, the National Academy of Sciences’ National Research Council (NRC) released its recommendations for assessing risks from pesticides to listed species under the Endangered Species Act and FIFRA.  The Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and National Marine Fisheries Service are working collaboratively and expeditiously to review the report and identify improvements in the current scientific procedures used in evaluating the potential impacts of pesticides to endangered and threatened species.  On November 13, 2013, the federal agencies released a white paper detailing an interim approach for implementing the panel’s recommendations.[8]  We currently anticipate that implementation of the recommendations could take 18-36 months, which could have an impact on our progress in developing preliminary risk assessments and completing decisions for pesticides as part of the registration review program.
 
Finally, a number of chemical safety programs are affected by changing levels of economic activity.  For example, EPA’s work in certifying firms to perform lead renovation, repair, and painting work depends partly on fluctuations in the level of demand for such services, which are related in turn to economic conditions in the housing market.
 
Endnotes:
EPA chemical safety program information is available at http://www.epa.gov/oppt/existingchemicals/, http://www.epa.gov/oppt/newchems/, and http://www.epa.gov/oppt/nano/.
FY 2014-2015 Agency Priority Goal:  Assess and reduce risks posed by chemicals and promote the use of safer chemicals in commerce.  By September 30, 2015, EPA will have completed more than 250 assessments of pesticides and other commercially available chemicals to evaluate risks they may pose to human health and the environment, including the potential for some of these chemicals to disrupt endocrine systems.  These assessments are essential in determining whether products containing these chemicals can be used safely for commercial, agricultural, and/or industrial uses.  
Information about childhood lead poisoning is available at www.epa.gov/lead.
EPA Lead-Safe Certification Program, information available at http://www.epa.gov/lead/pubs/toolkits.htm.
Nanomaterials are chemical substances or materials manufactured and used at a very small scale—down to 10,000 times smaller than a human hair.  See also, www.nano.gov.
EPA pesticides program information is available at http://www.epa.gov/pesticides.
Information about the EPA endocrine disruptor screening program is available at http://www.epa.gov/scipoly/oscpendo/index.htm.
The white paper is available at http://www.epa.gov/espp/2013/interagency.pdf.
 
</objective_overview></Strategic_Objective><Strategic_Objective><id>3319</id><objective_header>Promote Pollution Prevention</objective_header><objective_statement>Conserve and protect natural resources by promoting pollution prevention and the adoption of other sustainability practices by companies, communities, governmental organizations, and individuals.
</objective_statement><objective_overview>The 1990 Pollution Prevention Act established national policy for the use of P2 as the first choice in addressing pollution at the source.  Time and experience have added to our understanding and appreciation of the value of preventing pollution before it occurs.  P2 is central to all of EPA’s sustainability strategies, and EPA will continue to incorporate P2 principles into its policies, regulations, and actions.[1]
 
EPA strives to prevent pollution by fostering the development of P2 solutions and promoting increased use of those solutions.  The results of these strategies include significant reductions in the use of hazardous materials, energy, and water and in the generation of greenhouse gases, as well as significant increases in the availability and use of safer chemicals and safer chemical products.  EPA’s successful implementation of these strategies also enables businesses, governments, and other institutions to reduce their costs.  These strategies are key elements of EPA’s approach to achieving a sustainable future.  Specific activities conducted to implement these strategies include:
 
Fostering the development of P2 innovations:
Promoting green chemistry and green engineering, and developing educational curricula;
Establishing technical criteria for chemical alternatives assessments;
Participating in the development of voluntary consensus standards and other safer chemical products criteria, including participating in international cooperative efforts;
Establishing greener purchasing and management practices (i.e., environmentally preferable purchasing); and,
Incorporating P2 solutions in regulatory options or requirements.
Promoting increased use of P2 innovations:
Providing and promoting technical assistance, such as establishing Economy, Energy, and Environment (E3) Partnerships (in conjunction with the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Energy, and Labor, and the Small Business Administration) or providing technical assistance on manufacturing, green sports, or other business sectors;
Demonstrating the benefits of P2 solutions;
Labeling safer products by working with key stakeholders through the Design for the Environment (DfE) program;
Leveraging the power of federal purchasing; and,
Coordinating with other P2 offices across the Agency with shared audiences or sustainability approaches, including ENERGY STAR, WaterSense, the sustainable materials management program, and other complementary programs between Goal 3 and Goal 4.
 
External Factors and Emerging Issues
The Agency’s multi-media P2 efforts are affected by changes in economic conditions.  Much of EPA’s P2 work is voluntary, so success depends in part on participation levels by industry, government agencies, and members of the public.
 
Endnotes:
EPA pollution prevention program information is available at http://www.epa.gov/p2/.
</objective_overview></Strategic_Objective></Strategic_Objectives><Indicators></Indicators></data>