<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?><data><Agency_Priority_Goal><Agency_ID>17</Agency_ID><Agency_Name>Environmental Protection Agency</Agency_Name><Agency_Priority_Goal_ID>36782</Agency_Priority_Goal_ID><Fiscal_Year>FY16-17</Fiscal_Year><APG_Header>Advance resilience in the nation’s water infrastructure, while protecting public health and the environment, particularly in high-risk and vulnerable communities. </APG_Header><APG_Statement>By September 30, 2017, EPA will provide technical assistance and other tools to 75 urban communities to advance green infrastructure planning and implementation efforts to increase local climate resilience and water quality protections in stormwater infrastructure.&amp;nbsp;EPA will also provide tools and training for 5000 operators of small water utilities to improve resilience in drinking water, wastewater, and stormwater systems. Trainings will be targeted based on regional threats, such as drought and flooding.
</APG_Statement><APG_Overview>The uninterrupted delivery of safe drinking water is an integral element in maintaining the public health of the nation. Improvements in the drinking water sector preparedness to prevent and mitigate the duration and severity of interruptions to the delivery of safe drinking water continues to be necessary in light of evolving stresses, whether attributed to natural, accidental, or intentional circumstances or aging or stressed infrastructure.&amp;nbsp; Extreme weather events, sea level rise, shifting precipitation patterns and temperature variability, all intensified by climate change, have significant implications for the sustainability of the water sector. By planning for, assessing and adapting to these challenges, the water sector can fulfill their public health and environmental missions and begin the process of becoming climate ready.

&amp;nbsp;

Under Presidential Policy Directive 21, the President has designated EPA as the Sector Specific Agency responsible for enhancing the resilience and preparedness of the nation’s water sector, which includes about 180,000 drinking water and wastewater utilities. Further, the Department of Homeland Security has designated the water sector to be one of four “lifeline” sectors, meaning that if a disruption of service occurs in any one of these four sectors, then a community or region will experience potentially significant consequences in terms of public health, the economy, and the other critical infrastructure sectors, many of which rely on the lifeline sectors.

&amp;nbsp;

EPA’s green infrastructure program works with communities to assess how green infrastructure can enhance their stormwater management systems and be an integral part of their climate resiliency strategy. The agency has developed green infrastructure tools and resources for communities to use in planning their long-term stormwater actions.

&amp;nbsp;

EPA’s efforts to improve the resilience of the water sector derive not only from these homeland security directives, but also from its core mission as an agency, viz., the protection of public health and the environment.

&amp;nbsp;

Drinking water and wastewater utilities must remain operational in the face of all hazards if we are to preserve the many gains in public health and environmental protection which have been realized from the water sector. As with the other lifeline sectors, the water sector is at risk from a multitude of threats spanning natural disasters, climate change, cyber-attacks, and terrorism.

&amp;nbsp;

The 2002 amendments to the SDWA required drinking water systems serving more than 3,300 people to submit a vulnerability assessment to EPA. However, Congress required that such systems prepare a vulnerability assessment as a one-time mandate, not a recurring one. The statutory requirements also excluded water systems serving fewer than 3,300 people and all wastewater systems.

&amp;nbsp;

EPA’s water security and resilience program has developed a robust array of successful tools, training, and direct technical assistance for the water sector to improve prevention, as well as enable appropriate situational response, including application of resources, to mitigate the interruption of delivery of safe drinking water to the nation’s consumers. For instance, under EPA’s leadership, the number of intrastate mutual aid compacts (peer-to-peer assistance networks) has increased from just three states in 2006 to 49 states in 2015. Small and larger scale incidents have triggered the activation of eighty-six percent of these agreements. Despite this success, enhancing resilience competes with many other priorities within the water sector, notably, regulatory compliance, aging infrastructure, and funding inadequacies. As such, EPA continues to try to lower the barriers to adopting resilience measures by providing innovative, easy to use software tools and in person, nationwide training sessions to help water systems of all sizes and types to enhance their resilience.

&amp;nbsp;

In addition to motivating the water sector, EPA must be mindful of the evolving threats to the water sector. Extreme weather events, the increasing impacts of climate change, and the almost omnipresent threat of cyber-attacks in particular will impose a daunting challenge to the water sector, as evident by several recent events: the persistent drought in California and much of the west, drought then extreme flooding in Texas, storm surge in New York and New Jersey from Hurricane Sandy, and cyber intrusions into water utilities’ operations. Such threats will jeopardize the ability of the water sector to continue to fulfill its public health and environmental missions unless the sector manages to improve its resilience to all hazards.

&amp;nbsp;

In response, EPA has undertaken a national effort to enhance resilience—with an emphasis on severe drought, flooding, cybersecurity, and climate change—through the provision of planning tools, training sessions, and direct technical assistance.

&amp;nbsp;

Stormwater is an increasing water infrastructure challenge. As more land is developed with impervious surfaces, the amount of stormwater that communities must manage continues to grow. Stormwater is a significant source of water pollution, contributes to sewer overflows, and causes local flooding. As the climate changes, more precipitation and more intense rain events in certain portions of the country will further strain community stormwater management systems. In the west and southwest increasing drought conditions will emphasize the need for communities to use rain as a beneficial water resource before in can become polluted stormwater runoff.
</APG_Overview><Goal_Leaders><Goal_Leader><goal_leader_name>Michael H. Shapiro</goal_leader_name><goal_leader_title>Deputy Assistant Administrator </goal_leader_title><goal_leader_org>Office of Water</goal_leader_org></Goal_Leader></Goal_Leaders><next_steps>Community Engagements


The EPA will continue working with states to achieve the goal of 75 communities:


•&amp;nbsp;EPA Office of Wastewater Management’s Municipal Branch will continue to provide green infrastructure technical assistance to additional communities through regional and headquarters efforts.


Training Events


EPA will continue to use an array of agency developed tools as the basis for conducting training sessions for water, wastewater, state, and federal officials.


Next Steps (FY 2017 Q1, October 1 – December 30, 2016 Activities)


•&amp;nbsp;EPA will present at the Association of State Drinking Water Administrators Annual Conference on increasing communications between the Water and Emergency Services Sector. The presentation will highlight early findings from the Water Emergency Services Sector Workshops held earlier in the year. (October 2016)
•&amp;nbsp;EPA will highlight WSD tools and resources for drinking water and wastewater utilities at the upcoming National Association of Water Companies and Rural Community Assistance Partnership Conferences. (October and November 2016)
•&amp;nbsp;EPA will hold a Community-Based Water Resiliency Workshop in Trenton, New Jersey to identify key interdependencies and assist in building resilience to a water emergency. This workshop will assist the utility in its efforts to develop an Emergency Action Plan in relation to taking one of its reservoirs offline for a future project. (November 2016)
•&amp;nbsp;EPA will host a webinar entitled, “Free Preparedness Tools for Drinking Water and Wastewater Utilities”, featuring the following resources: Hazard Mitigation for Natural Disasters: A Starter Guide for Drinking Water and Wastewater Utilities, Water Utility Response On-the-Go Website, Laboratory Support Resources and the Climate Resilience and Awareness Tool. (November 2016)
•&amp;nbsp;EPA will host a Water/Wastewater Agency Response Agency (WARN) Chairs meeting at the AWWA Water Infrastructure Conference to discuss progress made regarding mutual aid networks across the nation. (November 2016)
•&amp;nbsp;EPA will sponsor a two-day workshop in Pasco, Washington to help improve interstate mutual aid and assistance (MAA) among utilities and WARNs. (November 2016)
•&amp;nbsp;EPA, state officials, and FEMA will conduct site visits at two water and wastewater utilities in Iowa that are vulnerable to flooding to characterize flood risk, determine vulnerable assets, identify flood mitigation recommendations, and outline a plan to implement and fund the recommendations. (November 2016)
•&amp;nbsp;EPA will hold a state Emergency Response Exercise for the Water Sector in Ohio. (December 2016)
</next_steps><progress_update>Community Engagements


During the fourth quarter of FY 2016 (Jul – Sep 2016), EPA continued to engage with states on a number of activities to help advance infrastructure resiliency and protect public health and the environment, especially in vulnerable communities. EPA increased the number of community engagements from&amp;nbsp;60 to 74 with the following 14 activities:


•&amp;nbsp;EPA’s Office of Water provided green infrastructure technical assistance and other tools to 5 additional communities.
•&amp;nbsp;EPA’s Office of Water provided Green Infrastructure Grants to 9 additional communities through the Urban Waters Program.


Training Events


Response and participation to resilience training events continues to be of high interest to communities, as well as the national and regional organizations that represent the drinking water and wastewater industry.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; Participation during quarter four of FY 2016 is again occurring at extremely high rates similar to that achieved in quarters one, two, and three of FY 2016.

Total = 949 utilities, states, and federal officials


•&amp;nbsp;EPA presented at FEMA’s Annual Hazard Mitigation Stakeholder Workshop at the FEMA EMI facility in Maryland to highlight the importance of State Hazard Mitigation and State Primacy/Environmental Agency staff working together to promote resilience in the water sector. 200 individuals attended. (July 2016)
•&amp;nbsp;EPA held an Emergency Response Plan Focus Group meeting in Washington, DC with 13 key water sector stakeholders to inform an update to existing EPA guidance. (July 2016)
•&amp;nbsp;EPA held a state Emergency Response Exercise for the Water Sector in Atlanta, Georgia. 62 individuals attended. (July 2016)


	As a result of the exercise, participants agreed to pursue projects to improve response, including improving communication protocols among water utilities, local environmental health offices and local emergency management agencies.


•&amp;nbsp;EPA held a Water Emergency Services Support workshop in Virginia (70 participants) to facilitate coordination between water utilities and emergency management agencies, law enforcement and fire departments. (August 2016)
•&amp;nbsp;EPA held two Water Healthcare and Public Health Workshops in Georgia (79 participants) and Connecticut (77 participants) to facilitate coordination between water utilities, hospitals and public health agencies (August and September 2016)


	As a result of the workshops, hospitals learned the importance of verifying certifications for alternate water suppliers. Several hospitals said they would include their water utility in their annual Vulnerability Assessment.


•&amp;nbsp;EPA presented and/or exhibited on a suite of new tools for water utilities at the following conferences:&amp;nbsp; AWWA ACE (128 participants), National Rural Water Association (82 participants), Rocky Mountain AWWA (90 participants) (July and September 2016).
•&amp;nbsp;EPA held a National Preparedness Day event entitled, “Navigating a Day without Water: A Virtual Discussion in Disaster Preparation” to highlight the importance of taking steps to prepare for a water emergency (30 participants). The discussion included a disaster scenario that focused on disrupted water services in a fictional community.&amp;nbsp; Participants included water and wastewater utilities, public health agencies, hospitals, emergency managers, fire, state primacy agencies and associations. (September 2016)
•&amp;nbsp;EPA held a Hazard Mitigation webinar with the Association of State Drinking Water Administrators (ASDWA) to present an overview of the newly released Hazard Mitigation Guide for the Water Sector, and highlight the importance of State Primacy/Environmental Agency and State Hazard Mitigation staff working together to promote resilience in the water sector.&amp;nbsp; 41 individuals attended the webinar. (September 2016)
•&amp;nbsp;EPA held two Flood Resilience Training workshops in Edison and Brooklawn, New Jersey for local water utilities to learn more about flood risk and potential flood mitigation projects. 70 individuals in total participated in the workshops. (September 2016)
•&amp;nbsp;EPA held a webinar with seven water sector focus group members to initiate beta-testing of a new outreach tool, EPA’s Route to Resilience, which guides water utility staff to key resiliency-related guidance documents and tools. (September 2016)
&amp;nbsp;
</progress_update><themes></themes><contributing_programs_and_other_factors>i)&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; EPA’s Ground Water and Drinking Water (OGWDW) Program - The Safe Drinking Water Act provides EPA with the authority to establish drinking water standards, state revolving loan funds to support communities with their water infrastructure needs, conduct enforcement, and the ability to authorize states to directly implement the drinking water program and oversee public water systems.&amp;nbsp; The Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water (OGWDW) in EPA’s Office of Water oversees the programs under the Safe Drinking Water Act that support this goal. &amp;nbsp;

ii)&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; EPA's Climate Ready Water Utilities (CRWU) Initiative – The CRWU assists the water sector, which includes drinking water, wastewater, and stormwater utilities, in addressing climate change impacts. Through the development of practical and easy-to-use tools, EPA promotes a clear understanding of climate science and adaptation options by translating complex climate projections into accessible formats. This information helps utility owners and operators better prepare their systems for the impacts of climate change.

iii)&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; Public Water System Supervision (PWSS) Grant Program - Since 1976, EPA has annually received a Congressional appropriation under section 1443(a) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) to assist primacy agencies in carrying out their Public Water System Supervision (PWSS) programs. These grants help eligible states, territories, and tribes develop and implement a PWSS program adequate to enforce the requirements of the SDWA and ensure that water systems comply with the National Primary Drinking Water Regulations.

iv)&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) – The Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended in 1996, established the DWSRF to make funds available to drinking water systems to finance infrastructure improvements. The program also emphasizes providing funds to small and disadvantaged communities and to programs that encourage pollution prevention as a tool for ensuring safe drinking water. Each state implements a DWSRF program.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;

v) &amp;nbsp; &amp;nbsp;Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) - The CWSRF was established by the 1987 amendments to the Clean Water Act (CWA) as a financial assistance program for a wide range of water infrastructure projects, including green infrastructure projects such as green roofs, rain gardens and wetlands, which can help meet cost-effectively Clean Water Act requirements and protect and restore the Nation's waterbodies and drinking water sources under 33 U.S. Code §1383.

vi)&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; Water Infrastructure and Resiliency Finance Center - The Center serves as a resource to communities to improve their wastewater, drinking water and stormwater systems, particularly through innovative financing and increased resiliency to climate change.

EPA will continue to leverage resources for improving water sector resilience through partnerships with other federal agencies and local communities. In particular, EPA works closely with NOAA in obtaining key data relating to climate change and in co-hosting training events for water and wastewater systems. FEMA provides important assistance to EPA with respect to its infrastructure funding programs through the Public Assistance program, which funds recovery at water systems in the aftermath of a disaster, and the Mitigation program, which funds preparedness and prevention projects. FEMA also leads many other emergency response activities which have enormous relevance to the water sector, such as appropriate credentialing of emergency response officials and resource typing (ensuring a common lexicon for emergency needs and equipment).

For cybersecurity, EPA will continue its partnership with the U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT) at DHS, where much of the federal government’s expertise in cybersecurity detection and countermeasures resides. EPA will continue its effective partnerships with state water and emergency management programs, as these state programs have a critical role in all phases of an emergency. EPA will also continue to work directly with water systems and local communities, which in the absence of direct assistance, likely would not undertake the efforts needed to address extreme events, cybersecurity, and climate change.&amp;nbsp;

&amp;nbsp;

Key barriers and challenges

In 2014, EPA helped to establish the Green Infrastructure Collaborative, a coalition of 30 external organizations and seven federal agencies (HUD, DOT, DOD, USDA, DOE, DOI, EPA) all committed to jointly working to advance and support local green infrastructure implementation. The Collaborative members contribute to hands-on and place-based technical assistance aimed at reducing the harmful impacts of stormwater runoff and using green infrastructure to create more livable communities. The federal partners will continue to identify opportunities to align and leverage resources to support green infrastructure, with a focus on identifying non-water focused funding opportunities such as community development and transportation program initiatives. The external stakeholders will provide to EPA the tools and resources they have developed to help community stormwater decision making so that the EPA can highlight them through its outreach channels. Additional information about the Collaborative can be found at:&amp;nbsp;http://water.epa.gov/infrastructure/greeninfrastructure/gi_partners.cfm

&amp;nbsp;

Stormwater, in many communities, still lacks dedicated and sustainable funding sources; this creates difficulties in establishing and maintaining robust and protective water quality protection programs. In addition, the construction and operation of green infrastructure differs from that of the gray infrastructure with which communities are most familiar. A number of communities have developed expertise in constructing green infrastructure projects but many communities require technical assistance and information. There has been a significant increase in the interest and implementation of green infrastructure over the past several years. However, key challenges remain for communities that are interested in incorporating green infrastructure into their stormwater management efforts. Many communities are confronted with institutional barriers that inhibit more innovative stormwater programs. Communities struggle with financing stormwater investments, establishing programs for effective maintenance, and developing long-term green infrastructure implementation strategies. Establishing an information exchange network is a key to overcoming many of these barriers. EPA’s focus on community technical assistance while also leveraging the knowledge and resources of the entire Green Infrastructure Collaborative will facilitate the transfer of best practices amongst communities and lower many of these barriers.

&amp;nbsp;

The need for partnering directly with local communities underscores some of the key barriers/challenges to this work. Many water systems, most notably smaller systems, find it challenging to marshal the resources to address these important risks. Also, the water security and resiliency program operates on an exclusively voluntary basis. Therefore, EPA needs to provide highly innovative and well marketed tools and training opportunities that offer a compelling basis for the sector to engage in the resilience program.
</contributing_programs_and_other_factors></Agency_Priority_Goal><Strategic_Goals><Strategic_Goal><id>3325</id><strategic_goal_header>Protecting America's Waters</strategic_goal_header><strategic_goal_statement>Protect and restore waters to ensure that drinking water is safe and sustainably managed, and that aquatic ecosystems sustain fish, plants, wildlife, and other biota, as well as economic, recreational, and subsistence activities.
</strategic_goal_statement><strategic_goal_overview>The nation’s water resources are the lifeblood of our communities, supporting our economy and way of life.  Across most of the country, we enjoy and depend upon reliable sources of clean and safe water.  Just a few decades ago, many of our drinking water systems provided very limited treatement to water coming through the tap.  Drinking water was often the cause of illnesses linked to microbiological and other contaminants.  Many of our surface waters would not have met today’s water quality standards.  Some of the nation’s rivers were open sewers, posing health risks, and many water bodies were so polluted that safe swimming, fishing, and recreation were not possible.
 
We have made significant progress since enactment of the landmark Clean Water Act (CWA), Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), and Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act approximately 40 years ago.  Today, although the enhanced quality of our surface waters and the greater safety of our drinking water are testaments to decades of environmental protection and investment, serious challenges remain.  Many small drinking water systems are particularly challenged by the need to improve and maintain infrastructure and develop the capacity to comply with new and existing standards.  Tens of thousands of homes, primarily in tribal and disadvantaged communities and the territories, still lack access to basic sanitation and drinking water.  The rate at which new waters are listed for water quality impairments exceeds the pace at which restored waters are removed from the list.
 
For many years, nonpoint source pollution, principally nitrogen, phosphorus, and sediments, has been recognized as the largest remaining impediment to improving water quality.  Recent national surveys have found that our waters are stressed by nutrient pollution, excess sedimentation, and degradation of shoreline vegetation, which affect upwards of 50 percent of our lakes and streams.[1]  Pollution discharged from industrial, municipal, agricultural, and stormwater sources continue to be causes of water quality problems, as does the degradation of watersheds and their natural plant communities and hydrologic structure, which help protect water quality.  A changing climate will compound these problems, highlighting the need to work with our partners to evaluate options for protecting infrastructure, conserving water, reducing energy use, adopting green infrastructure and locally-driven watershed-based practices, and improving the resilience of infrastructural and natural systems, including utilities, watersheds, and estuaries.[2]
 
Over the next 4 years, EPA will reinvigorate efforts to improve water quality, working with states, territories, and tribes to better safeguard human health and make America’s water systems sustainable and secure.  We will:
 
Assess the status of and changes in water quality through the National Aquatic Resource Surveys;
Strengthen the protection of our aquatic ecosystems;
Improve watershed-based approaches to reduce pollution;
Implement innovative technologies;
Carry out comprehensive approaches to help maintain healthy watersheds;
Foster increased protection of drinking water sources through improved coordination; between CWA and SDWA programs at the national, regional, state, and watershed scales;
Focus efforts in key geographic areas[3]; and,
Take measures to incorporate climate change considerations into clean water and drinking water program planning and implementation.
 
EPA is establishing two Agency Priority Goals for FY 2014-2015 that are continuations from FY 2012-2013:  (1) to improve public health protection for persons served by small drinking water systems by strengthening the technical, managerial, and financial capacity of those systems[4]; and, (2) to improve, restore, or maintain water quality by enhancing nonpoint source program accountability, incentives, and effectiveness.[5]  In the first Priority Goal, EPA will continue to partner with the states and pilot with several tribes to enhance their capacity development, operator certification, and treatment optimization programs.  These efforts are intended to build upon or reinvigorate efforts already underway across the country.  The Agency is continuing to partner with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA’s) Rural Utilities Service to promote drinking water and wastewater system sustainability, foster water sector workforce opportunities in rural America, and coordinate infrastructure funding as appropriate.  EPA will continue to provide states and tribes with funding to assist utilities with financing drinking water infrastructure needs.  In the second Priority Goal, EPA is implementing a strengthened nonpoint source (CWA Section 319) grant program[6] to continue yielding on-the-ground water quality results in watersheds nationwide.  A significant component of this effort is working with state partners to update their nonpoint source programs, which guide overall priorities and investments for Section 319 funds.  Updated nonpoint source programs, combined with collaboration efforts with USDA, state departments of agriculture, and other partners, will result in better protection of water quality from nonpoint sources of pollution.
 
Working with our partners, the Agency’s effort to protect our waters has two objectives—protecting human health and protecting and restoring watersheds and aquatic ecosystems.
 
End Notes:
U.S. EPA, 2006.  Wadeable Streams Assessment:  A Collaborative Survey of the Nation’s Streams. EPA 841-B-06-002.  Available at http://www.epa.gov/owow/streamsurvey.  See also EPA, 2010.  National Lakes Assessment:  A Collaborative Survey of the Nation’s Lakes.  EPA 841-R-09-001.  Available at http://www.epa.gov/lakessurvey/pdf/nla_chapter0.pdf.
Resilience is the ability of a system to absorb change and disturbance and retain its fundamental function and/or structure.
For more information on these programs and their performance measures, see the annual National Water Program Guidance, available at http://www.epa.gov/water/waterplan/index.html.
FY 2014-2015 Agency Priority Goal:  Improve public health protection for persons served by small drinking water systems, which account for more than 97 percent of public water systems in the U.S., by strengthening the technical, managerial, and financial capacity of those systems.  By September 30, 2015, EPA will engage with an additional ten states (for a total of 30 states) and three tribes to improve small drinking water system capability to provide safe drinking water, an invaluable resource.
FY 2014-2015 Agency Priority Goal:  Improve, restore, and maintain water quality by enhancing nonpoint source program leveraging, accountability, and on-the-ground effectiveness to address the nation’s largest sources of pollution.  By September 30, 2015, 100 percent of the states will have updated nonpoint source management programs that comport with the new Section 319 grant guidelines that will result in better targeting of resources through prioritization and increased coordination with USDA.
For information visit http://water.epa.gov/polwaste/nps/cwact.cfm.
</strategic_goal_overview><strategic_goal_sequence>2</strategic_goal_sequence></Strategic_Goal></Strategic_Goals><Strategic_Objectives><Strategic_Objective><id>3326</id><objective_header>Protect Human Health</objective_header><objective_statement>Achieve and maintain standards and guidelines protective of human health in drinking water supplies, fish, shellfish, and recreational waters, and protect and sustainably manage drinking water resources.
</objective_statement><objective_overview>Sustaining the quality and supply of our water resources is essential to safeguarding human health.  More than 300 million people living in the United States rely on the safety of tap water provided by public water systems that are subject to national drinking water standards.  Over the next 4 years, EPA will help protect human health and make America’s water systems sustainable and secure by:
 
Providing financial assistance for  public water system infrastructure to protect and maintain drinking water quality;
Strengthening compliance with drinking water standards;
Continuing to protect sources of drinking water from contamination and ensuring reliable supplies of drinking water as water temperatures increase (including addressing the harmful effects of algal blooms);
Developing new and revising existing drinking water standards to address known and emerging contaminants that endanger human health; and,
Supporting states, tribes, and territories in their oversight of public water systems in implementing these standards, and supporting water systems directly through provision of guidance, training, and information.
 
While promoting sustainable management of drinking water infrastructure, we will provide needed oversight and technical assistance to states, tribes, and territories, so that their water systems comply with or exceed existing standards and are able to comply with new standards.  We will also promote the construction of infrastructure that brings safe drinking water into the homes of small, rural, and disadvantaged communities and increase efforts to guard the nation's critical drinking water infrastructure.
 
In addition, EPA is actively working Agency-wide and with external partners and stakeholders to implement a multi-faceted drinking water strategy.  With this approach, EPA seeks to:  address chemicals and contaminants by group, as opposed to working on a chemical-by-chemical basis; foster the development of new drinking water treatment technologies; use the authority of multiple statutes in addressing drinking water contamination; and, encourage collaboration with states and tribes to share more complete data from monitoring at public water systems.  To this end, the Agency is replacing the federal and state components of EPA’s Safe Drinking Water Information System (SDWIS) with a new system.  SDWIS Prime is designed to assist regulatory agencies with their implementation of the public water system supervision (PWSS) program, as well as improve the efficiency of sharing drinking water data among states, tribes, and the Agency.  This will allow for better targeting of federal and state funding and technical assistance resources, and improve data quality while increasing public access to drinking water data.
 
Science-based water quality criteria are essential to protect our public water systems, groundwater and surface water bodies, and recreational waters.  These criteria are the foundation for state and tribal tools to safeguard human health such as public advisories for beaches, fish consumption, and drinking water.  Over the next 4 years, we will expand that science to improve our understanding of emerging potential waterborne threats to human health, develop new criteria, and validate testing methods that provide quicker results and enable faster action on beach safety.
 
External Factors and Emerging Issues
EPA’s underground injection control (UIC) program provides a framework to ensure protection of underground sources of drinking water from endangerment related to the construction, operation, permitting, and closure of injection wells that place fluids underground for storage, disposal, enhanced recovery of oil and gas, or minerals recovery.  Natural gas plays a key role in our clean energy future.  Hydraulic fracturing is a key way to recover natural gas from sources.  EPA will ensure proper oversight of hydraulic fracturing operations in cases where diesel fuel is used by implementing permitting guidance under SDWA's Class II UIC program for hydraulic fracturing.  EPA is working with state and tribal organizations, along with other federal agencies, to develop and implement voluntary strategies for encouraging the use of alternatives to diesel in hydraulic fracturing and improving compliance with other Class II regulations, including possible risks from induced seismic events and the risk from radionuclides in disposal wells.  EPA is also continuing to work with state, tribal, and industry representatives to make UIC Class II regulations and information more transparent and to implement best practices and promote coordination between UIC and oil and gas agencies.
</objective_overview></Strategic_Objective><Strategic_Objective><id>3327</id><objective_header>Protect and Restore Watersheds and Aquatic Ecosystems</objective_header><objective_statement>Protect, restore, and sustain the quality of rivers, lakes, streams, and wetlands on a watershed basis, and sustainably manage and protect coastal and ocean resources and ecosystems.
</objective_statement><objective_overview>People and the ecological integrity of aquatic systems rely on healthy watersheds.  EPA employs a suite of programs to protect and improve water quality in the nation’s watersheds—rivers, lakes, wetlands, and streams—as well as in our estuarine, coastal, and ocean waters.  In partnership with states, territories, local governments, and tribes, EPA’s core water programs help:
 
Protect, restore, maintain, and improve water quality by financing wastewater treatment infrastructure;
Conduct monitoring and assessment;
Establish pollution reduction targets;
Update water quality standards;
Issue and enforce discharge permits; and,
Implement programs to prevent or reduce nonpoint source pollution.
 
While promoting sustainable management of municipal wastewater and stormwater infrastructure, we will work with federal, state, and local partners to bring appropriate and effective solutions to small, rural, and disadvantaged communities.  EPA will continue to promote robust planning that includes an assessment of green, sustainable alternatives, and will continue to work with municipalities on implementing the integrated planning process for wastewater and stormwater management on a case-by-case basis.[1]
 
We will also work more aggressively to reduce and control pollutants that are discharged from industrial, municipal, agricultural, and stormwater sources, and vessels, as well as to implement programs to prevent and reduce pollution that washes off the land during rain events.  By promoting green infrastructure and sustainable landscape management, EPA will help restore natural hydrologic systems and the health of aquatic ecosystems to reduce pollution from stormwater events.[2]  The Agency is exploring innovative approaches to meeting the 21st century water quality challenges with streamlined permitting and oversight processes supported by modernized data management and technologies.
 
To provide information on the ecological and recreational condition of the nation’s waters and the key stressors impacting those waters, EPA will continue to work with states and tribes to implement the National Aquatic Resource Surveys, including the National Rivers and Streams Assessment, the National Coastal Condition Assessment, the National Wetland Condition Assessment, and the National Lakes Assessment.[3]  These probability-based surveys provide nationally consistent and scientifically-defensible assessments of our nation's waters.  These data will support EPA and our partners in identifying priority actions to protect and restore water quality and in assessing whether collective efforts are improving water quality over time as water conditions are altered in response to climate change.
 
Over the next 4 years, EPA will continue efforts to restore water bodies that do not meet water quality standards, preserve and protect high-quality aquatic resources, and protect, restore, and improve wetland acreage and quality.  The Agency will improve the way existing tools are used, explore how innovative tools can be applied, and enhance efforts and cross-media collaboration to protect and prevent water quality impairment in healthy watersheds.  The Agency will use the National Aquatic Resource Survey to track the effectiveness of these combined efforts at protecting and improving water quality over time.
 
Results from the National Aquatic Resource Survey reinforce EPA’s commitment to address nitrogen and phosphorus pollution as among the most serious and pervasive water quality problems.  Programs for controlling nonpoint sources of pollution are key to reducing the number of impaired waters nationwide.  The programs provide a multi-faceted approach to the problem, combining innovative development strategies to help leverage traditional tools.  In addition to working with state, tribal, and local partners, EPA is collaborating with USDA to implement its National Water Quality Initiative (NWQI) and collaborating on other geographically-based initiatives.  Coordination of EPA’s nonpoint source (CWA Section 319) grant funds and USDA Farm Bill funds is intended to protect water quality more effectively from runoff from agricultural lands and demonstrate improved effectiveness.  USDA launched the NWQI in FY 2012, which targets 5 percent of USDA’s Environmental Quality Incentives Program resources for water quality improvements in 165 specific watersheds across the nation.  EPA is collaborating closely with USDA as it implements this program, and is now requiring states to assess water quality results in NWQI watersheds through Section 319 grant funds or other funding sources.
 
Development and implementation of total maximum daily loads (TMDLs) for CWA Section 303(d) listed impaired waterbodies is a critical tool for meeting water quality restoration goals.  The CWA 303(d) listing and TMDL program has engaged with states to implement a new 10-year vision for the program to more effectively achieve the water quality goals of each state.  The approach involves fostering effective integration across multiple programs, statutes, and agencies—CWA point and nonpoint source programs, other statutory programs within EPA’s jurisdiction (e.g., the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act [CERCLA], Resource Conservation and Recovery Act [RCRA], SDWA, and Clean Air Act [CAA]), and the water quality efforts of other federal agencies (e.g., the Departments of Agriculture, Interior, and Commerce).  As part of this effort, EPA will continue to encourage states to identify priority waters for assessment, for development of TMDLs and other restoration plans for impaired segments, and for pursuit of protection approaches for unimpaired waters.  EPA will work with states and other partners to develop and implement activities and watershed plans to restore and protect these waters.     
 
In partnership with states, tribes, and local communities, EPA is implementing a clean water strategy that explores ways to improve the condition of the urban waterways that may have been overlooked or under-represented in local environmental problem solving.  The Agency will continue to play an active role as a member of the Urban Waters Federal Partnership to promote more efficient and effective use of federal resources and build new partnerships with states, tribes, local entities, and the private sector.
 
EPA will also lead efforts to restore and protect aquatic ecosystems and wetlands, particularly in key geographic areas[4], to address complex and cross-boundary challenges.  Key geographic areas in the national water program include the Chesapeake Bay, the Great Lakes, the Gulf of Mexico, the U.S.-Mexico Border region, the Pacific Islands, Long Island Sound, the South Florida Ecosystem, the Puget Sound Basin, the Columbia River Basin, and the San Francisco Bay Delta Estuary.  EPA will continue to work with and involve states, tribes, and interested stakeholders to set and achieve goals in these geographic areas.
 
EPA is heading up a multi-agency effort to restore and protect the Great Lakes through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative.[5]  In other parts of the nation, we will focus on nutrient pollution, which threatens the long-term health of important ecosystems such as the Chesapeake Bay.  EPA will continue to work with states, tribes, and stakeholders in the Mississippi River Basin on nutrient pollution that is affecting the health of the Gulf of Mexico.  Further, given the environmental catastrophe resulting from the Deepwater Horizon BP oil spill, EPA will continue to take necessary actions to support efforts of federal and state trustees in the natural resource damage assessment to restore the Gulf of Mexico ecosystem.  EPA shares in the role of being a Natural Resource Trustee with responsibility to conduct the natural resource damage assessment for the spill.  In addition, EPA is also a member of the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council, established under the RESTORE Act[6], to restore the ecosystem and economy of the Gulf Coast region.  Monitoring in the Gulf of Mexico under the National Aquatic Resource Survey will be important to fully document the long-term impacts of the spill and track the recovery of wetland and near-shore estuarine resources.  This long-term effort by EPA and the states is an important complement to the project-specific and special-focus monitoring efforts underway as part of the Natural Resource Damage Assessment and BP Research funds.
 
To respond and adapt to the current and potential impacts of a changing climate on aquatic resources, including the current and potential impacts associated with warming temperatures, changes in rainfall amount and intensity, and sea level rise, EPA has developed a “National Water Program 2012 Strategy:  Response to Climate Change.”  This strategy sets out long-term goals and specific actions contributing to national efforts to prepare for, and build resilience to, impacts of a changing climate on water resources.  EPA is working with state, tribal, and local governments, as well as other partners, to implement actions addressing climate change challenges to the protection of water infrastructure, coastal and ocean waters, watersheds, and water quality.[7]  For example, EPA has developed the Climate Resilience Evaluation and Assessment Tool (CREAT) to help water utilities assess vulnerability to a changing climate and take response actions.  EPA is also defining actions that states can take starting in 2015 to adapt core clean water and drinking water programs (e.g., state revolving loan funds, water quality standards, and drinking water sanitary surveys) to a changing climate.
 
External Factors and Emerging Issues
Water Quality:  Water quality programs face challenges such as increases in nutrient loadings and stormwater runoff, aging infrastructure, and population growth (which can increase water consumption and place additional stress on aging water infrastructures).  The Agency is carefully examining the potential impacts of and solutions to these issues, including effects on water quality and quantity that could result in the long term from a changing climate.  The Agency will continue implementing the National Aquatic Resource Surveys to support collection of nationally consistent data to support these efforts.  The Agency will also continue to implement the WaterSense program as a means to help communities address challenges posed by water scarcity through demand management.[8]
 
Population Density:  In 2010, 52 percent of the U.S. population lived in coastal watershed counties which comprise less than 20 percent of the total land area of the U.S., excluding Alaska.  The population density of coastal watershed counties is over five times greater than the corresponding inland counties.  If current population trends continue, the already crowded U.S. coast will see population grow from 123 million people to nearly 134 million people by 2020, placing more of the population at increased risk from a changing climate and exposing these fragile coastal ecosystems to greater pressures.  Population growth in coastal watershed counties is impacting water quality and other coastal resources within National Estuary Program (NEP) study areas.  NEPs work to address the impacts of growth by focusing their long-term management and annual work plans on priorities such as stormwater management, reduction of excess nutrient loadings, and promotion of low-impact development and green infrastructure.  Also, EPA’s climate-ready estuaries program provides the capacity for NEPs and coastal stakeholders to develop vulnerability assessments.[9]
 
Technology Market Opportunities:  EPA is working both internally and with external partners and stakeholders to discuss plans for advancing innovative technologies that will be important to the continued protection and restoration of waters.  Some key market opportunities for innovative technology to help address current and emerging water resource issues were identified in EPA’s “Blueprint for Integrating Technology Innovation into the National Water Program.”[10]  They include:
Energy reduction and recovery at drinking water and wastewater facilities;
Nutrient recovery from wastewater;
Improving and &quot;greening&quot; the nation's infrastructure;
Water reuse;
Improved and less expensive monitoring;
Improving reliability of small drinking water systems;
Technology evaluation and performance;
Reducing water impacts from domestic energy production;
Resiliency of water infrastructure; and,
Improving water quality of oceans, estuaries, and watersheds.
 
Endnotes:
For information on the Integrated Planning process, see http://cfpub.epa.gov/npdes/integratedplans.cfm.
For information on managing wet weather with green infrastructure, see http://cfpub.epa.gov/npdes/home.cfm?program_id=298.
For information on National Aquatic Resource Surveys, see http://water.epa.gov/type/watersheds/monitoring/aquaticsurvey_index.cfm.
For more information on these programs and their performance measures, see the annual National Water Program Guidance, available at http://www.epa.gov/water/waterplan/index.html.
Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is focused on toxic substances and areas of concern, invasive species, nearshore health and nonpoint source pollution, habitats and species, and integrated solutions to cross-cutting issues.  Information is available at http://greatlakesrestoration.us/.
Please see http://www.restorethegulf.gov/council/about-gulf-coast-ecosystem-restoration-council.
 EPA National Water Program 2012 Strategy:  Response to Climate Change, information available at http://water.epa.gov/scitech/climatechange/2012-National-Water-Program-Strategy.cfm.  United States Global Change Research Program, information available at http://www.globalchange.gov/resources/reports.
For information on WaterSense,  see http://www.epa.gov/watersense/.
For information on climate-ready estuaries, see http://water.epa.gov/type/oceb/cre/index.cfm.
“Blueprint for Integrating Technology Innovation into the National Water Program,” information is available at http://water.epa.gov/blueprint.cfm.
 
</objective_overview></Strategic_Objective></Strategic_Objectives><Indicators></Indicators></data>