"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"General Services Administration",23,GSA,Efficiency,541,1002,"Enhance asset management","GSA will invest in real property assets and effectively manage buildings and vehicle fleet.","GSA will continue to invest in improving our real property assets and operating systems to meet the needs of its federal customers. We will use asset evaluation tools to determine the financial performance in the real property inventory. By applying leading and innovative building operations management principles, we will provide services in an efficient and effective manner for the American taxpayer.  GSA will continue to support customers in meeting their fleet needs though the efficient management of our fleet operations. Since we are responsible for approximately one half of the federal fleet, we leverage economies of scale in delivering fleet solutions to customers that include working with customers to find the best solutions to meet their mission critical needs at the lowest cost possible. We are also able to manage changes in demand from customers through use of its vehicles to alleviate the need for additional assets by the federal government to meet short term needs.  Strategies:   	Maintain a viable, self-sustaining inventory of real properties providing federal agencies with optimum facilities at the best possible cost. 	Ensure customer agencies are paying competitive, market rates for building support services. 	Actively manage the GSA Fleet vehicles across the federal customer base and maximize asset utilization to the greatest extent possible. 	Leverage the information systems and infrastructure across the federal government to reduce per unit cost of vehicle operations. 	Work with our customer agencies to further educate them on how to efficiently identify and dispose of unneeded real property assets.   Key Performance Goals:   	Achieve an appropriate return on equity for government-owned properties 	Provide building cleaning and maintenance at competitive costs   Contributing Programs:    	Building Operations 	Repairs and Alterations 	Travel, Motor Vehicle and Card Services","Public Buildings Service (PBS)","During FY 2015, GSA improved asset management and building operations and saved taxpayers money by improving operations, and leveraging buying power. GSA has struggled to meet certain building operations measures without the funding needed for repairs and upgrades.  In FY 2015, 81.3% of measured buildings’ cleaning and maintenance costs were within or below the private sector counterparts.  In FY 2015, GSA’s goal is to reduce operating costs to bring 80% of office buildings within market range.  GSA will continue to improve in this area by looking at innovative new strategies for cleaning and maintenance contracts to minimize costs while ensuring service levels remain constant or improve.   During FY 2016, GSA will continue to improve asset management and building operations, update, right-size, and sustain the federal vehicle and aviation fleets, optimize and reduce internal vehicle fleet and consolidate and streamline facility-related contracts.  Strategic Objective Next Steps. GSA will take the following actions in support of this strategic objective over the next two years:   	Ensure customer agencies are paying competitive, market rates for building support services 	Backfill vacant space more efficiently through the complementary use of client and local portfolio planning 	Improve on-time activation of Occupancy Agreements (OA) to enhance the financial efficiency of real property leasing program 	Improve customer satisfaction through the modernization of the Reimbursable Work Authorizations (RWA) business process. An RWA is a formal agreement between GSA and a customer whereby GSA agrees to provide goods and/or services and the customer agrees to reimburse GSA’s direct and indirect costs 	Implement a commercial car sharing pilot to evaluate improvement in utilization of fleet vehicles 	Continue pilot study to evaluate collision avoidance technology for select vehicles and customers","General Government||Management",,,
