"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Veterans Affairs",29,VA,"Empower Veterans to Improve Their Well-being",1011,1012,"Improve Veteran Wellness and Economic Security","Improve Veteran Wellness and Economic Security","Summary:  Numerous programs provide a broad spectrum of benefits and support services that assist Veterans and eligible beneficiaries. To enable Veterans and eligible beneficiaries to choose the best benefits and services for their needs, VA will improve coordination between our programs, leverage supportive interactions between programs, and reduce overlap across programs. Success will be measured by the differences made in the lives of the Veterans we serve, including decreasing Veteran unemployment, decreasing home foreclosures, decreasing homelessness, reducing processing times for disability compensation claims, increasing preventive care and healthy lifestyle changes, and increasing access to and utilization of virtual care modalities.  Strategies:  VA will eliminate Veteran homelessness by the end of FY 2015. VA, in collaboration with its Federal partners, will continue to provide rehabilitation services for homeless and at-risk Veterans, including employment assistance, access to permanent and transitional housing, and other supportive services. As the number of homeless Veterans continues to decline, the focus will shift from rescue to prevention.  VA will improve Veteran career readiness to reduce Veteran unemployment. We will synchronize and align Veteran employment programs managed by VA, and improve coordination across the various Federal Veteran employment initiatives. We will increase support to our Veterans with disabilities and those who are GI Bill eligible through programs offering educational and vocational counseling. VA will increase support to Veteran entrepreneurs through public-private partnerships to provide capacity building and by providing access to Federal contracting opportunities.     VA will provide Veterans and eligible beneficiaries with personalized, proactive, patient-driven health care to optimize health and well-being, while providing state-of-the-art disease management. VA’s Patient Aligned Care Teams (PACT) will ensure patient engagement in self-care, preventive services, primary care, and mental health services. PACT is a partnership between the Veteran and the health care team with an emphasis on prevention, health promotion, and self-management. PACTs use a team-based approach, with various members of the team stepping in at different points in time to provide needed care. We will expand and refine, in coordination with DoD, research into the long-term consequences of TBI and PTSD. VA will increasingly seek to understand underlying health, injury and disorder mechanisms to create evidence-based diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation methods for Veterans and eligible beneficiaries with support from their families.",,"Final Assessment:  VA, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, determined that performance toward this objective is making noteworthy progress.  Achievements:  In FY 2015, VA placed an estimate of 64,902 Veterans in permanent housing, including moves into the HUD-VASH[1] Program, rapid rehousing placements through SSVF[2] program, and moves from VA residential treatment programs into permanent housing. VA also moved 87 percent of unsheltered Veterans out of unsheltered status within 30 days of engagement.     VA continues to expand research through various initiatives.  Over 518,000 Veterans have agreed to participate in the Million Veteran Program[3] since May 5, 2011, (goal is to study how genes affect health) and over 425,000 Veterans have completed the enrollment process as of November 2015.  Genotype information on about 400,000 will be completed by December 2015.  Initial phenotyping alpha and beta-tests are underway. Also, discussions with DoD have resulted in VA-funded researchers working on-site at the Millennium Cohort Study[4] at the Naval Health Research Center in San Diego.  These researchers are studying issues that are of interest to VA, and may in the future provide critical information towards enhancing the long-term health of Veterans and future generations of military members.      VA improved Veteran economic security through the VetSuccess On Campus (VSOC)[5] program, which helps Veterans and dependents succeed with on-campus assistance and counseling.  There are currently 74 VSOC counselors at 147 campuses, with the potential to support a population of nearly 137,758 Veterans, Servicemembers, and eligible dependents.  VSOC counselors provide support in transition to campus life, and work with Veterans to enable their education and employment success.  Also, the GI Bill Comparison Tool[6] was launched and enhanced in FY 2014, in response to Executive Order 13607.  As of November 10, 2015, there were 1,304,606 unique page views of the Comparison Tool with over one million schools searched.  Employers are reporting over 348,000 positions filled toward their Veteran hiring commitments.  Since inception in April 2014, the Veterans Employment Center (VEC)[7] received more than 18 million page-views and features 2.2 million jobs.  It contains over 15,000 publicly posted job seeker profiles and over 1,100 committed employers.  Implementation of Veterans Economic Communities Initiative[8], a phased initiative to provide enhanced economic opportunities for Veterans and their families.  On May 18, 2015, Phase 1 of the initiative rolled out to 25 U.S. communities evaluating success across 5 strategic focus areas:  Employment, Education, Partnerships, Local Policy Academies, and Integration with Government.     Also, VA is implementing the Veteran’s Choice Program through the use of Third Party Administrators to provide care to Veterans.[9]. In order to increase the number of Veterans who can use Choice, VA issued the “Hierarchy of Care” Memo to the field which makes Choice the top option for the VA Community, implemented the Choice First Program which offers Choice when a local facility does not offer service, and expanded “undue burden” to allow more flexibility where medical or distance challenges exist.  VA also utilized strategic communications to help Veterans, providers, and staff understand the Veterans Choice Program.  VA instituted a user-friendly site, set up a Veterans Choice Google Hangout, sent Home Mailers to Veterans and created a mandatory training program for staff on VA’s Talent Management System. Patient Aligned Care Teams (PACT) continue to transform “Veterans' care by providing patient-driven, proactive, personalized, team-based care oriented toward wellness and disease prevention resulting in improvements in Veteran satisfaction, improved healthcare outcomes and costs.”[10] The Prevention Index V scores, which indicate how well VA promotes healthy lifestyle, have been positively trending from FY 2010.  In FY 2015, the “maintain or exceed Prevention Index V” score is 92 percent.     Furthermore, VA continues to conduct internal and external outreach events that directly connect Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) and Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB) owners with Procurement Decision Makers from VA and other Federal and state agencies and corporations with Small Business needs to ensure procurement ready Small Businesses, particularly VOSBs, have access to relevant contracting opportunities.  Over 3,900 VOSBs participated in an outreach event during FY 2015.     Challenges: There are some challenges in achieving Objective 1.1. Community help is needed to provide affordable housing options for Veterans, opportunities for meaningful and sustainable employment, and improved access to mainstream programs and services (Homelessness APG).     Also, major shifts in VA’s contracting mix, mostly involving new dollars for non-VA health care, as well as dollars transferred within VA for completion of the Denver replacement hospital, will make VA’s current small business goal percentages unachievable, even as the number of actual dollars awarded increases for SDVOSBs and VOSBs.  The percentage changes will give the appearance of a reduction in effort on small business goals, even though at its current pace VA is on-track to award more than $4 billion to VOSBs for the first time ever.     Changes to VA contract policy around liquidated-damages clauses will require an additional $20M in FY 2016 for the VALERI initiative, which enables Loan Guaranty Program’s success in assisting defaulted borrowers avoid foreclosure.  VBA leadership will work to identify funding as needed in FY 2016.      Although the prevention index continues to reflect VHA PACT focus on population management, health promotion and disease management, the metric should be recognized as one of sustainment of VHA’s excellence in care delivery.  It is unlikely that this metric will demonstrate significant improvement over time, mainly due to  the Veterans preference to refuse screenings or vaccinations.  The data demonstrate a flat trend over time.     Additionally, Intramural Research Sharing Opportunities between VA, DoD, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the National Institutes of Health are limited and do not allow intramural investigators to work seamlessly across agencies.     VA is experiencing issues communicating to all staff on the Veterans Choice Program and the mitigation plan is to institute mandatory training.  Another challenge is Veteran awareness, knowledge, education, and utilization of the Veterans Choice Program.      [1] http://www.va.gov/homeless/hud-vash.asp    [2] http://www.va.gov/homeless/ssvf.asp    [3] http://www.research.va.gov/mvp/    [4] http://www.research.va.gov/mvp/    [5] https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/vsoc-fact-sheet    [6] http://department-of-veterans-affairs.github.io/gi-bill-comparison-tool/    [7] https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/jobs    [8] http://www.blogs.va.gov/VAntage/20015/va-launches-campaign-increase-veterans-economic-potential/    [9] http://www.va.gov/opa/choiceact/    [10] http://www.va.gov/health/services/primarycare/pact/’      ","Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services||Health||Veterans Benefits and Services||Income Security",1031,"FY14-15 : End Veteran Homelessness","VA has taken decisive action toward its goal of ending homelessness among Veterans.  The End Veteran Homelessness initiative is intended to prevent Veterans and their families from entering homelessness and to assist those who are homeless in exiting as safely and quickly as possible.  VA’s “no wrong door” philosophy will ensure that homeless and at risk for homeless Veterans have timely access to appropriate housing and services.  Any door a Veteran comes to - at a medical center, a regional office, or a community organization - will lead to the tools to offer Veteran assistance.  Ending homelessness among Veterans will advance the mission of VA by ensuring that all Veterans and their families achieve housing stability. On a single night in January 2014 during the Point in Time (PIT) Count [1], there were 49,933 homeless Veterans in the US.  Effectively ending homelessness among Veterans requires rapid access to permanent housing, health care, employment, benefits, and other supportive services.  VA works closely with community partners to meet current and new demands for any Veteran who is experiencing or is at imminent risk of homelessness.  Housing First and Rapid Re-housing are two of the many evidence-based approaches VA uses to end homelessness.  The Housing First model follows the philosophy of providing permanent housing as quickly as possible to Veterans/individuals experiencing homelessness and then wrapping health care and other supportive services as needed around the Veteran to sustain housing and improve their quality of life.  Rapid Re-housing is a set of strategies to help families quickly move out of homelessness and into permanent housing.  It typically involves:  housing search and landlord mediation assistance, short-term or flexible rental assistance, and transitional case management services.  Rapid Re-housing provides crisis intervention services to quickly place an individual or family who is currently homeless into a permanent, sustainable housing situation. [1] The annual PIT estimates are a snapshot of homelessness.   They are submitted to HUD each year by communities and account for homeless Veterans in emergency shelters or transitional housing on the night of the PIT count (i.e., sheltered) as well as homeless Veterans who are in places not meant for human habitation such as the streets, abandoned buildings, cars, or encampments (i.e., unsheltered).  Communities typically conduct their PIT count during the last week in January when a large share of the homeless population is expected to seek shelter rather than stay outside.  Because counting people in shelters is more precise than conducting street counts, the timing of the PIT count is intended to improve the accuracy of the estimates.  (Source:  Veteran Homelessness:  A Supplemental Report to the FY 2010 Annual Homeless Assessment Report to Congress).  "
