"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Veterans Affairs",29,VA,"Enhance and Develop Trusted Partnerships",1014,1016,"Enhance VA’s Partnerships with Federal, State, Private Sector, Academic Affiliates, Veteran Service Organizations and Non-Profit Organizations","Enhance VA’s Partnerships with Federal, State, Private Sector, Academic Affiliates, Veteran Service Organizations and Non-Profit Organizations","Summary:  While VA is not the sole provider of benefits, services, and resources to Veterans and eligible beneficiaries, we hold ourselves accountable for each Veteran’s success, no matter who provides assistance. To provide Veterans and eligible beneficiaries an integrated, coordinated, personalized portfolio of benefits and services efficiently and effectively, we must improve our communication, coordination, and relationships with our partners in other Federal agencies; state, tribal, and local governments; VSOs; MSOs; academic affiliates; unions; nonprofits; and private industry. We must develop a partnership culture that entails trust, transparency, mutual benefit, responsibility, productivity, and accountability. Increased public-private partnership opportunities empower staff with effective tools and resources for collaborations, and allow for building open innovation platforms.  Strategies:  VA will leverage responsible and productive partnership opportunities that can supplement VA services and help fill urgent or emerging gaps in services. We will pursue opportunities for partnering with organizations that can best provide what we cannot or should not.  VA will establish a partnership award program to acknowledge and recognize successful partnerships in various organizational and service categories.  VA will foster stronger collaboration and information exchange with across the spectrum of care, benefits and services providers.",,"Final Assessment:  VA, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, determined that performance toward this objective is making noteworthy progress.  Achievements:  VA established the MyVA Strategic Partnerships (SP) Team in order to leverage resources external to the VA on an effective and consistent basis, at all levels of the Department, to improve the Veteran experience while enhancing productivity and efficiency.  The SP Team formed an internal workgroup with more than 25 representatives from across the Department.  The workgroup met weekly to share best practices, new proposals, problem solve challenges and bring individual Administrations and Staff Offices together for updates.  The SP Team published VA Directive 0008 on May 29, 2015, that provides fundamental guidance for exploring, establishing, managing, and evaluating public-private partnerships for all employees.[1]  The SP Team began creating a toolkit with needed resources to better equip and empower staff.  The toolkit includes a departmental approved Memorandum of Agreement template, SP training course, internal website, non-profit due diligence worksheet draft, and several others in development - to standardize, streamline, and simplify the partnership process.  In September 2015, the SP Team launched a SP 101 Training Course for all employees to build and increase their knowledge and awareness of relevant partnership information, strategies, and capabilities.  The SP Team is beta-testing a relational database that will manage, track, and provide performance reports on external engagement activities and partnerships, expected to launch in summer FY 2016.[2]  The SP Team has engaged regularly in meetings and discussions with external stakeholders leading to the formation of new and expanded partnerships – including the Summer of Service campaign where VA set a goal to serve 15,000 Veterans and family members from Memorial Day until Labor Day FY 2015.  Through these new, expanded, and reenergized partnerships this goal was exceeded by 182 percent, thereby serving over 42,322 Veterans and family members.               In addition, VA is strengthening services to Veterans in local communities by partnering with private sector organizations in order to build networks of local Veteran support through MyVA Communities.  MyVA Communities is currently working to train employers in the hiring and support of Veterans, holding employment summits, and learning resource hubs.  They will continue to develop and partner with stakeholders and have set a goal of establishing  100 MyVA Communities by December 2016.  They also set a goal to, “Reduce the average duration (weeks) of unemployment for Veterans within the first fifteen (15) months of separation by 20 percent in all metropolitan areas targeted for MyVA Communities.”  Address key economic growth areas and targeted at-risk Veteran populations across the country through community development efforts.”     VA executed 17 active public-private partnerships including those with Bob Woodruff, LinkedIn, and Coursera.  Twenty-eight additional local and national partnerships are currently in development, including partnerships that involve joint outreach and advocacy efforts, hiring/training commitments, enhancements to the VA’s Veterans Employment Center, entrepreneurship cultivation, accelerated learning programs, cooperation with local communities, and other employment-related initiatives.     Challenges:  None identified      [1] http://www1.va.gov/vapubs/viewPublication.asp?Pub_ID=803&FType=2    [2] http://www.va.gov/opa/myva/docs/myva_integrated_plan.pdf   ","Veterans Benefits and Services",1031,"FY14-15 : End Veteran Homelessness","VA has taken decisive action toward its goal of ending homelessness among Veterans.  The End Veteran Homelessness initiative is intended to prevent Veterans and their families from entering homelessness and to assist those who are homeless in exiting as safely and quickly as possible.  VA’s “no wrong door” philosophy will ensure that homeless and at risk for homeless Veterans have timely access to appropriate housing and services.  Any door a Veteran comes to - at a medical center, a regional office, or a community organization - will lead to the tools to offer Veteran assistance.  Ending homelessness among Veterans will advance the mission of VA by ensuring that all Veterans and their families achieve housing stability. On a single night in January 2014 during the Point in Time (PIT) Count [1], there were 49,933 homeless Veterans in the US.  Effectively ending homelessness among Veterans requires rapid access to permanent housing, health care, employment, benefits, and other supportive services.  VA works closely with community partners to meet current and new demands for any Veteran who is experiencing or is at imminent risk of homelessness.  Housing First and Rapid Re-housing are two of the many evidence-based approaches VA uses to end homelessness.  The Housing First model follows the philosophy of providing permanent housing as quickly as possible to Veterans/individuals experiencing homelessness and then wrapping health care and other supportive services as needed around the Veteran to sustain housing and improve their quality of life.  Rapid Re-housing is a set of strategies to help families quickly move out of homelessness and into permanent housing.  It typically involves:  housing search and landlord mediation assistance, short-term or flexible rental assistance, and transitional case management services.  Rapid Re-housing provides crisis intervention services to quickly place an individual or family who is currently homeless into a permanent, sustainable housing situation. [1] The annual PIT estimates are a snapshot of homelessness.   They are submitted to HUD each year by communities and account for homeless Veterans in emergency shelters or transitional housing on the night of the PIT count (i.e., sheltered) as well as homeless Veterans who are in places not meant for human habitation such as the streets, abandoned buildings, cars, or encampments (i.e., unsheltered).  Communities typically conduct their PIT count during the last week in January when a large share of the homeless population is expected to seek shelter rather than stay outside.  Because counting people in shelters is more precise than conducting street counts, the timing of the PIT count is intended to improve the accuracy of the estimates.  (Source:  Veteran Homelessness:  A Supplemental Report to the FY 2010 Annual Homeless Assessment Report to Congress).  "
