"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Veterans Affairs",29,VA,"Enhance and Develop Trusted Partnerships",1014,1017,"Amplify Awareness of Services and Benefits Available to Veterans through Improved Communications and Outreach","Amplify Awareness of Services and Benefits Available to Veterans through Improved Communications and Outreach","Summary:  The benefits, services, and resources available to our current and future clients, and the means and mechanisms for delivering them, must be widely-known and well understood. We will expand the ways in which we connect to our clients to amplify awareness of the services and benefits available to Veterans and eligible beneficiaries. We will connect with Veterans and eligible beneficiaries, our partners, and the Nation through clear, aligned, and proactive interactions.  Strategies:  VA will establish a robust, authoritative communications capability that provides and aligns a clear, concise, positive, and compelling message. We will establish standardized corporate communications policies and procedures to coordinate efforts across the Department.  VA will establish internal standardized enterprise outreach policies and procedures to coordinate efforts across the Department.  VA will develop outreach plans and strategies in collaboration with our partners to ensure Veterans and eligible beneficiaries and their families are aware of all of the programs for which they are eligible; not only those provided by VA and not solely programs designed to serve a Veteran-only population. We will pursue joint outreach campaigns to enable sharing of communications channels and audiences to reach more Veterans and eligible beneficiaries.",,"Final Assessment:  VA, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, determined that performance toward this objective is making noteworthy progress.  Achievements:  For FY 2015, VA pushed 56 communiques about town-hall events, VACAA, Veterans employment resources, Fry Scholarship, Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program Grant, and others – to external stakeholders serving Veterans, their families, Survivors, caregivers, and other beneficiaries.  Also, during FY 2015, VA published 110 press releases regarding information on VA benefits and services.     Also, VA updated the VAntage Point[1] blog in March 2015, which serves as the bridge between VA’s social content and VA.gov.  Overall traffic has nearly doubled compared to the previous version of VAntage Point.  Visitors are remaining on the site for longer and clicking on to other content more often.  Tablet and mobile device use has increased nearly 100 percent more than use on personal computers (due to mobile responsiveness).  From December 2014 to October 2015, VAntage Point had 2.7M page views, 1.6M sessions, and 1.2M users.     The Explore VA[2] campaign remains on-going.  The VA homepage site continues to improve information on VA services and benefits and how to apply.  Explore VA includes dozens of testimonial videos by Veterans discussing how VA benefits and services improve their lives.  Explore VA also is host to monthly digital media events such as Google Hangouts, twitter chat, subscriber emails, and Crowd Hall forums to specifically discuss a VA service or benefit in focus.  The objective of these tools is to drive Veterans and family members to VA.gov to increase awareness and access.       From April 2014 to October 2015, VA’s Facebook page added 605,709 likes for a total of 944,000 (up 122 percent), reached 289.5M (up 240 percent) people and engaged 21.1M (up 354 percent).  VA’s Twitter gained 105,000 followers for a total of 254,000, (up 70 percent) and 224,310 mentions.  In addition, VA uploaded 912 videos to YouTube and gained  10,111 subscribers (up 51 percent).  VA’s Instagram had 606 photos and 13,733 followers.     Challenges:  Integrating messaging opportunities across not only the main VA digital channels, but administration, program office, and facility accounts continues to be a work-in-progress.  Developing quality content and executing sustained messaging from the field level up will be a focus of traditional and digital media efforts going forward.      [1] http://www.blogs.va.gov/VAntage/    [2] http://explore.va.gov/","Veterans Benefits and Services",,,
