"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Veterans Affairs",29,VA,"Manage and Improve VA Operations to Deliver Seamless and Integrated Support",1018,1019,"Make VA a Place People Want to Serve","Make VA a Place People Want to Serve","Summary:  VA recognizes that an organization is only as strong as its people, and realizes that it must build on successes and continue to transform the way it manages human capital. VA is a customer service organization. VA’s greatest asset is its workforce.  VA’s workforce must be able to adapt to the changing demographics, needs, and expectations of the Veteran population as well as changes in the workforce population. More than 30 percent of VA’s workforce is eligible for retirement, including roughly 50 percent of VA’s senior executives. Today, we have skills gaps in health care, acquisition, claims processing, human resources (HR), and IT, and we need to address those and build the workforce for tomorrow. The skills needed for success in the future are not the skills of today. VA must recruit, train, motivate, and lead its workforce with inspired and inspiring leadership. VA must consider human capital management and workforce planning as key enablers for every initiative or project we undertake in order to have the right people with the right skills in the right job at the right time.  Strategies:  VA will identify the critical skills and competencies needed to achieve the best current and future results and develop workforce planning and development strategies that are tailored to address skills gaps. To fully succeed in transformation and continue on the successes built to date, VA will develop strategic leaders and build a cadre of talented successors in the federal government’s management and executive functions. VA will develop and cultivate leadership skills and build the pipeline for future leaders to ensure effective succession management plans.  VA will improve enterprise-wide governance of human capital management using a strategic approach that includes top management, employees, and other stakeholders. .  VA will improve strategic HCM by implementing an enterprise-wide, career development and training management program, and identifying organizational owners for occupational specialties.  VA will require ongoing development of leadership capabilities and develop enterprise-wide human capital strategies that, when implemented throughout the organization, will improve employee engagement, increase individual contribution and satisfaction by fostering ownership, empowerment, resiliency and commitment to serving Veterans and eligible beneficiaries.",,"Final Assessment:  VA, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, determined that performance toward this objective is making noteworthy progress.  Achievements:  VA established the MyVA Employee Experience priority with the goal of improving the employee experience through a collaborative, inclusive experience that inspires and empowers all VA employees to deliver world-class customer service while demonstrating a sense of pride and achieving their full potential.  As part of this initiative, VA added a performance plan element to Senior Executive Service (SES) and managers for engagement action plans; implemented “Leaders Developing Leaders;” increased Senior Executive Coaching Program and Workshops; expanded Senior Executive Strategic Leadership Courses; and established SES Candidate Development Program.  VA also distributed an “Engagement Playbook” for VA leaders and an “Engagement Handbook” for frontline leaders with recommended practices and behaviors to engage employees.  In addition, VA administered  Integrity Commitment Advocacy Respect Excellence (I CARE) reaffirmation training to all VA employees with a completion rate of 97.5 percent and established the I CARE Secretary’s Honor Award to recognize model employees.  VA completed a culture case study, which included site visits within Veterans Integrated Service Network 1, to identify best practices for delivering outstanding Veteran and employee experiences.  VA also administered the FEVS and the           FY 2015 official response rate was 36 percent which represents an increase of over 3 percent from FY 2014.     Also, VA increased Veteran Employment Specialists to support district workforce requirements in order to assist in recruitment and retention of Veteran job seekers and current Veteran employees.  The percentage of Veterans at VA increased to 32.74 percent in FY 2015 from 32.66 percent in FY 2014.  And Veterans were consistently hired in less than 26 calendar days on average through noncompetitive appointments – this represents on average 3-days less hiring time than in FY 2014.     To improve employee leadership training and engagement, VA launched the Virtual Aspiring Leaders[1] pilot program in November 2014 for employees levels GS 9 through GS 13, with a total of 151 participants.  This online leadership development program helps develop the leadership skills of high-performing VA employees.  It is meant to augment the Leadership VA program, which is expected to graduate 76 fellows.  Also, VA inaugurated the Profiles in Leadership open enrollment program that offers self-paced, web-based curriculum based around five leadership profiles[2].  VA also implemented a pilot program that improves the internal hiring process for VA employee candidate and a newly mandated customer service training for HR personnel.     Additionally, since November 2014, 752,895 users have visited the MyCareer@VA[3]website and completed 314,496 career development activities.  VA continued HR SMART implementation (upgraded HR IT System).  HR·SMART successfully completed the intensive Phase 1 rollout at NCA.  In accordance with VACAA, wait time metrics or goals have been removed from employees’ performance evaluations and VA Handbook 5021 has been revised to include a penalty for the falsification of data.  VA also implemented a bi-monthly Executive Seminar Series for SES-level employees.     Challenges:  There are a limited number of Veterans who are licensed medical professionals (Title 38), eligible to fill vacant VA positions.  Compounding that fact is VACAA increased the number of medical positions in VA, making it even more challenging to find qualified/licensed Veterans to fill those positions.[4]     Another challenge is that a constrained resource environment threatens program continuation because budget reductions may reduce/limit delivery of services to employees.  Other challenges include proposed or passed Congressional legislation that threaten or limit employee due process and congressional or organizational efforts to withhold performance awards.      [1] http://mycareeratva.va.gov/library/leadership-va/leadership-development-programs/valp    [2] http://www.valu.va.gov/slickSheet/view/103    [3] http://mycareeratva.va.gov/    [4] http://www.va.gov/opa/choiceact/factsheets_and_details.asp      ","General Government||Management",,,
