"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Social Security Administration",16,SSA,"Strengthen the Integrity of Our Programs",1033,1049,"Transform the Way We Record Earnings to Enhance Data Accuracy",,"We devote significant resources to making certain our earnings records are accurate and we credit the correct amount to the right person.  In FY 2013, we posted more than 251 million earnings reports to workers’ records.  Although in calendar year 2013, employers electronically filed about 87 percent of Forms W-2, we still receive approximately 30 million items on paper Forms W-2.  To improve earning records accuracy, we will work with the employer community to significantly reduce paper wage reports, moving toward an all-electronic earnings record process.  We also will increase efforts to encourage the public to verify their earnings information on their Social Security Statement.  A multi-year earnings redesign initiative is underway to modernize our earnings reporting system to increase efficiency and accuracy.  In addition, we are collaborating with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to enhance the earnings data exchanges to improve the wage reporting process with IRS.  Strategies:   	Modernize our earnings system; 	Encourage electronic wage reporting; and 	Encourage the public to review their Social Security Statement for earnings accuracy.","Office of Systems","We took the following steps in FY 2015 to transform the way we record earnings to enhance data accuracy (see Key Initiatives and Performance Measures for more details):   	Redesigned software to process Forms W-2 within the Annual Wage Reporting system (AWS); 	Processed larger volumes of earnings data through redesigned AWS: 	 		Over 22 million wage items per day; 		Over 81 million wage items per week; and 		Exceeded prior tax year volumes of 15 million per day and 72.3 million per week. 	 	 	Implemented redesign, platform changes, and business processes into earnings systems resulting in: 	 		More efficiency and consistency in service; 		Improved flow and speed of earnings processes; and 		Improved accuracy. 	 	 	Implemented systems enhancements that are expected to decrease the number of wage reports filed on paper and reduce manual workloads.   Next Steps   	Continue to modernize and streamline other major components of the Earnings Systems; and 	Continue marketing efforts encouraging people to review their earnings for accuracy. 	 ","Social Security",,,
