"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Commerce",6,DOC,"Expand the U.S. economy through increased exports and inward foreign investment that lead to more and better American jobs",574,1101,"Increase opportunities for U.S. companies by opening markets globally (ITA, USPTO, NTIA, NOAA)","Increase opportunities for U.S. companies by opening markets globally (ITA, USPTO, NTIA, NOAA)","The strength of the U.S. economy continues to depend on competitive manufacturing and services sectors and a vibrant open global marketplace. Growth in key foreign markets will help drive global economic recovery. More than one billion new consumers worldwide will enter the middle class during the next 15 years, and their buying power will increase the consumption of goods and services worldwide.     As economies around the world grow, some foreign governments develop policies that create barriers to U.S. companies in those markets. Such trade barriers and other unfair trade practices cost U.S. companies billions of dollars in lost revenue. Trade barriers result not only in financial loss, but also limit the ability of U.S. companies to expand production, hire additional workers, or pursue investment opportunities. Studies indicate that trade openness has added between $800 billion to $1.4 trillion to the U.S. economy since World War II, amounting to $7 thousand to $13 thousand per U.S. household.Removing the remaining trade barriers could result in an additional $400 billion to $1.3 trillion annually, or about an additional $4 thousand to $12 thousand per U.S. household.     The Department will deploy its policy and promotional tools to help U.S. firms compete for new opportunities globally. A renewed focus on global competitiveness will help strengthen the long-term health of U.S. industries and stimulate domestic job creation. The Department will also use its strong expertise on export promotion and industry-economic-country issues to conduct holistic analyses of U.S. trade issues and needs, make recommendations, and take actions.",,"During FY 2014, the Department of Commerce (DOC) made progress toward increasing opportunities for U.S. companies by opening markets globally through strong execution toward several key strategies supporting this objective:  ensuring U.S. commercial and economic interests are advanced in trade agreements, in other international fora and with foreign governments; and the reduction of foreign trade barriers.  U.S. Government-wide Advocacy efforts on behalf of U.S. companies competing for international government contracts resulted in 90 foreign government contracts awarded, totaling nearly $80 billion in export content (more than the value won in FY 2012 and FY 2013 combined.)  The U.S.-Mexico High Level Economic Dialogue (HLED) has begun to produce measureable progress since its launch one year ago, and the Department’s Doing Business In Africa campaign is likewise building rapid momentum.  However, deteriorating international security concerns in countries such as Russia, Ukraine, Iraq, Egypt, and Kenya have strongly impacted the business climate as well as related client services.  Progress towards bilateral commercial relationships with these nations was therefore negatively impacted.     FY 2014 Accomplishments include:      	Positive progress was made at the 24th U.S.-China Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade. 	The Department has been credited with elevating the commercial aspect of bilateral engagement within the fifth and most recent U.S.-India Strategic Dialogue. 	Commerce bureaus represented U.S. interests in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) trade negotiations. The markets represented under these agreements account for 65 percent of the world’s goods and services trade and 69 percent of U.S. goods exports. 	Hosted first-ever U.S.-Africa Business Forum and established the President's Advisory Council on Doing Business in Africa. 	74 target foreign trade barriers were prevented, reduced, or removed.  (Note: FY 2012 and FY 2012 counts are not available; the Department began tracking this metric in FY 2014 to gauge its performance on trade barrier removal efforts.) 	Launched Executive Order establishing the Interagency Task Force on Commercial Advocacy. 	To support the President’s Trade Africa, Power Africa and Asia Rebalance initiatives, ITA opened new offices in markets in Africa and Asia: Angola, Ethiopia, Mozambique, Tanzania, and Burma, plus Wuhan, China.  This puts Foreign Commercial Service Officers into some of the world’s most rapidly developing economies to help find partners and navigate the regulatory hurdles for American companies. 	China and Korea agreed to finalize a Memoranda of Understanding on fisheries product safety and certification.      Next Steps in FY 2015:                                                                                                      	FY2015 Q1 – During President Obama’s visit to China for APEC, the President announced that the United States and China are concluding a reciprocal visa validity arrangement that will strengthen our economic ties.  Both countries agreed to increase the validity of short-term tourist and business visas issued to each other’s citizens from one to ten years – the longest validity possible under U.S. law – and increase the validity of student and exchange visas from one to five years.  The United States will begin issuing visas in accordance with the new reciprocal agreement on November 12, 2014. 	FY2015 Q1 – Sign final fisheries product safety and certification agreements and Memoranda of Understanding with China and Korea to facilitate cooperation and more easily exports to China and Korea. 	FY2015 Q1-4 – Support passage of Trade Promotion Authority legislation. 	FY 2015 Q1-4 – Advance U.S. commercial objectives during TTIP negotiations. 	FY 2015 Q2 – Conclude TPP trade negotiations that reflect U.S. commercial priorities.","International Affairs",1428,"FY14-15 : Companies assisted by Global Markets that achieve export objectives","Exports are important to U.S. economic prosperity. The International Trade Administration (ITA) is committed to providing high-quality assistance that helps U.S. companies achieve their export objectives. This priority goal focuses on improving the quality of assistance ITA’s trade and commercial specialists provide to companies. ITA’s delivery of substantive, high value-added assistance is affirmed when companies receiving this assistance respond that they have achieved their export objectives. The Global Markets business unit within ITA is the organizational lead on this priority goal. It is imperative that Global Markets staff worldwide – all of whom interact with U.S. companies – are unified behind a common goal that focuses on unique needs of our customers. The FY12 – FY13 baseline average percentage of companies assisted that achieved their export objectives is 67 percent for ITA’s fee-for-service clients. To achieve this priority goal, Global Markets has sought to understand individual U.S. company needs to be successful internationally and, subsequently, offered a customized approach that draws on the full resources available across ITA and the Federal Government to meet those needs. This strategic shift towards offering a more consultative approach steers ITA professionals toward identifying the problems and challenges with exporting, and designing holistic solutions. It focuses ITA on engaging with clients to offer substantive, high value-added assistance, such as helping companies select the best markets to enter, overcoming export trade barriers, or finding suitable international business partners."
