"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of the Treasury",15,TREAS,"Enhance U.S. competitiveness and job creation, and promote international financial stability and more balanced global growth",1115,1116,"Provide technical assistance to developing countries working to improve public financial management and strengthen their financial systems","Provide technical assistance to developing countries working to improve public financial management and strengthen their financial systems","Treasury’s Office of Technical Assistance directly assists developing countries that have demonstrated strong commitments to reforming their public financial management or financial systems.  Technical Assistance Advisors work directly with finance ministries and central banks in developing countries worldwide to strengthen their capacity to manage public finances – through efficient revenue collection, well-planned and executed budgets, judicious debt management, fundamentally sound banking systems, and strong controls to combat corruption and economic crimes.  This work encourages prosperity and stability in other parts of the world and supports broader U.S. government international objectives — such as increasing transparency and accountability, reducing corruption, and strengthening the development of market-based policies and practice — while helping to create more stable international markets for U.S. exports.","International Affairs","Treasury, in consulation with the Office of Management and Budget, has determined that performance toward this objective is making noteworthy progress, due to the Office of Technical Assistance’s (OTA) reputation in program management and the results of recently completed projects, particularly in Latin America where OTA helped to establish Latin America’s first Tax Inspector General.  Treasury continues to provide critical technical assistance to finance ministries and central banks in developing countries.  In FY 2015, Treasury’s Office of Technical Assistance (OTA) successfully completed several projects in Latin America to provide regional models of excellence in public financial management.  For example, Treasury’s assistance enabled the establishment of the first tax inspector general within the Colombian government, now seen as a leader and model for surrounding countries.  In FY2015, OTA also continued to provide technical assistance to the Ukrainian government as part of the U.S. Government’s rapid response to stabilize the banking sector and strengthen government finances. ",,,,
