"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"National Science Foundation",422,NSF,"Transform the Frontiers of Science and Engineering",1165,1168,"Provide world-class research infrastructure to enable major scientific advances","Provide world-class research infrastructure to enable major scientific advances","To fulfill our core mission of “promoting the progress of science,” NSF must provide the research community with advanced and powerful tools and capabilities to keep the Nation’s research enterprise at the global forefront. These tools and capabilities include major research facilities, mid-scale instrumentation, advanced computational and data resources, and cyberinfrastructure. In addition, it is essential to prepare the next-generation workforce to develop, maintain, and employ the infrastructure to advance science. Large facilities hold the promise of major discoveries and revolutionary advances that can propel whole fields forward, thereby justifying significant investment costs.  These facilities also are training grounds for the scientists and engineers of tomorrow. Smaller, so-called “mid-scale” instruments are increasingly critical for enabling fundamental research in the experimental sciences; there is an urgent need to adequately provide this category of instrumentation. Advanced computational and data resources and cyberinfrastructure take many forms and are essential to S&E research.  Balancing investments in the development and operation of these tools and capabilities with the rest of NSF’s portfolio is a challenging management responsibility. Special challenges derive from life cycle planning, human capital development, and the curation, distribution, and management of the explosion of data being produced in all fields of research.  As with all NSF awards, infrastructure projects must meet extremely high standards of scientific merit and broader impacts, and comparable standards of project planning and execution.","Office of the Director","Much of today’s scientific research is interdisciplinary, data-intensive, and global.  Advances often occur through the involvement of large teams working across sites on shared datasets.  Cyberinfrastructure, a critical component of research infrastructure, is acting as a catalyst for that change.  The purpose of this Strategic Review was to examine NSF activities and roles regarding supporting “Next Generation Research Infrastructure” (NGRI).  As a first step, the Strategic Review Team began by defining NGRI.   1. What are some attributes of the Next Generation of Research Infrastructure (NGRI)?  2. How will NGRI change research?  For the purpose of this review, Research Infrastructure (RI) was defined as any combination of facilities, tools (physical, computational, or analytical), instrumentation, and human capital assembled in support of advancing scientific knowledge, accelerating technology development, enhancing technological and social innovation, and providing training for the next generation of individuals in the STEM fields.  RI may be single-sited or distributed; regional, national, or global.  Currently RI does not include NSF-designated Centers, which may use RI to support innovative research and education, encourage knowledge transfer, and promote integrative approaches to interdisciplinary activities.  NGRI is RI that is increasingly: • Collaborative: These collaborations can be national or international.  Part of the reason for this is to share costs, but it is also due to the increasing complexity of research questions being addressed in STEM fields. • Adaptive and Predictive:  Researchers use analytical tools and compute cycles on an as-needed basis. This enables rapid data processing and analysis and results in interpretable and just in time findings for end users. • Scalable and Integrated:  NGRI is linked and expanded through a “network of networks.” It is also integrated across physical (e.g., telescope) and cyber (e.g., data stored in cloud) components. • Accessible and Transparent:  NGRI employs cyber-enabled, graphical human interfaces for data collection, processing and analysis, and, increasingly, operational control of the RI.  NGRI changes research by providing unprecedented access to ubiquitous distributed computing, which will enable investigators to answer questions they could not before and replicate research more accurately.  3. What are the barriers and opportunities for supporting and catalyzing NGRI at NSF?  Barriers for moving towards NGRI at NSF: • Perceptions:  PIs may perceive barriers by NSF or universities to using NSF awards for NGRI resources.  A review of NSF policies produced no evidence of intrinsic barriers to charging NGRI (e.g., cloud resources) as a direct cost. Anecdotal evidence suggests that institutions may vary widely in how they classify NGRI costs. • Sociological:  Not all research communities have a tradition of sharing data or software, or having others control the research infrastructure, nor are there sufficient social and institutional incentives. • Resource mismatch compared to other movers in the field:  Industry (e.g., Silicon Valley, oil industry, defense) has advanced capabilities and data that move their research ahead of university-based research.  NSF’s role in this context should be made clear to its community. • Human capital: Knowledge and understanding.  NGRI may present a significant learning curve. Users need help, often through support of other humans, to harness its potential.  Opportunities for Action or Improvement • Transition to NGRI:  Support a workshop to get community input on funding / support gaps in NGRI portfolio to accelerate the transition to NGRI. Several issues to consider include understanding: sustainability of a NGRI investment, including all RI components; how software defined infrastructure concepts and practice can address issues of extensibility of the infrastructure, interoperability with other infrastructures, and sustainability of the infrastructure; and the role of human capital in NGRI. • NSF policies with respect to NGRI:  Review NSF policies that affect use or development of NGRI, and issue an appropriate communication to community. • Funding gaps:  Initiate internal discussions to reevaluate whether there are funding gaps that might affect the support of NGRI projects. ","General Science, Space, and Technology",,,
