"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Housing and Urban Development",25,HUD,"Achieving Operational Excellence",1181,1182,"Improve HUD’s acquisitions performance through early collaborative planning and enhanced utilization of acquisition tools","Improve HUD’s acquisitions performance through early collaborative planning and enhanced utilization of acquisition tools.   ","The Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO) is responsible for all HUD procurement and  procurement-related activities. The acquisition process can be lengthy, partially due to necessary compliance with statutes, policies and procedures. OCPO sees an opportunity to streamline the acquisition process and increase customer satisfaction by mapping out the process and identifying and removing non-value added steps.   In this challenging economic environment, OCPO also seeks to maximize the value of every taxpayer dollar and ensure opportunities for small businesses. To accomplish this, OCPO is committed to using internal and external acquisition vehicles specifically established to leverage HUD’s and the government’s buying power, maximize opportunities for small business, and increase the successful outcomes of acquisitions.   ","Office of the Chief Procurement Officer","HUD is designating the Acquisitions objective as a focus area for improvement. In FY 2015, 24 percent of requisitions were released by their target release date. CPO has introduced performance metrics at the senior executive level to ensure these tasks are given the priority needed. While the department still plans to create a new job series and position of the Contracting Officer Representative to overhaul the role of program office personnel in the acquisition process, these efforts have been delayed as the Deputy Secretary and CPO evaluate impacts and implementation strategies for the FY 2017 budget. Additionally, as the Department's acquisitions management IT system is being transitioned to a shared service provider, HUD needs to reevaluate the metrics that will be available for continued tracking.",,,,
