"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Housing and Urban Development",25,HUD,"Achieving Operational Excellence",1181,1186,"Increase transparency and accountability in financial management and budgeting","Increase accuracy, speed, transparency, and accountability in financial management and budgeting for the agency.","HUD's current core accounting systems have been a source of audit findings for many years. The systems have limited functionality and are difficult to maintain properly, which increases the risk of failure. Moreover, the current budget process has limited transparency and not all staff are trained on the appropriate budget formulation procedures. Further, HUD’s internal control processes need to be improved by addressing these significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.   The Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO) plans to improve internal controls on financial  management by reducing significant deficiencies and eliminating material weaknesses across the department. HUD will also improve the reliability of the financial accounting systems. HUD will also modify the budget formulation processes and procedures in order to increase transparency.   ","Office of the Chief Financial Officer","The Department has succeeded in going live with both the Concur module (October 1, 2014) and the updated WebTA module (February 8, 2015), and a financial system module and acquisition module (October 1, 2015) in the New Core Financial Management System in conjunction with the Bureau of Fiscal Service. In August 2015, the Department, the Office of Management and Budget, and Treasury gave approval to move the General Ledger to Treasury’s shared service provider as of October 1, 2015.  Throughout 2015, the Department made several changes to the budget process to improve transparency and support informed management and leadership decisions, including establishing quarterly management reviews, and building mechanisms to improve communication and processes, in coordination with program offices. ",,,,
