"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of the Interior",10,DOI,"Protect America's Landscapes",520,1251,"Improve land and water health by managing wetlands, uplands, and riparian areas","Improve land and water health by managing the wetlands, uplands, and riparian areas that comprise our national parks, wildlife refuges, and BLM lands.","Protecting America’s landscapes and natural resources is among the Department’s high priority conservation goals.  The Department manages over 530 million acres of public lands, together with associated waterways and plant and animal species.  In addition, the Department provides grant funding to States and Tribes for mitigating the adverse environmental effects of past mining on private lands.  Land in desired condition is valued for providing ecosystem services, recreational and scenic merits, and vast open spaces, which contribute to public enjoyment and health.  Maintaining or improving the condition of stream and shoreline miles benefits fish populations, enhances wildlife habitat, and contributes to a balanced ecology.  The Nation’s forests, mountains, wetlands, grasslands, and deserts host biological diversity that is critical to overall ecosystem health, and species survival and well-being.  Protecting the thousands of native plant and animal species, including those with special status under the Endangered Species Act (ESA), preserves the rich natural legacy of this Nation both today and for future generations.","BLM, FWS, NPS, BOR","The Department of the Interior, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, has highlighted this objective as a focus area for improvement.  Most of the land and water health and wildlife management performance measures sustained level or slightly decreasing performance trends over the past several years.  Resources for land and water health and wildlife management have been trending down since 2010, restricting the levels of effort from year to year in carrying out the work plans of the programs supporting these strategies.    The continuing resolution and delayed budget in 2012 that caused many programs to adopt cautious plans and sequestration restrictions in 2013 further exacerbated the situation.  Programs that were able to sustain performance generally did so because of redirection of resources to higher priority activities, multi-year efforts coming to fruition in 2012-2015, or sustained results from prior-year efforts remaining intact.  Future efforts will continue to be challenging as increasingly more variable weather conditions pose difficulties in enabling crews to accomplish objectives.  Climate change adaptation strategies are being developed and implemented to mitigate potential impacts and improve resilience.  There is some potential for declining performance due to the limited ability to address pervasive and persistent problems, such as invasive species. While the overall goal of protecting America’s landscapes is facing ongoing challenges, performance in maintaining and preserving migratory birds, fish populations, and endangered species is positive.  In 2015, the Department met or exceeded the performance targets on 12 of the 15 measures in these two strategies to improve land and water health and recover and sustain species. Favorable weather, the ability to redirect funds to priority projects, additional partner support, and the deployment of invasives Strike Teams and volunteers led to better-than-expected performance in many areas.  ","Natural Resources and Environment",1848,"FY14-15 : Climate Change Adaptation","Problem or opportunity being addressed The Department has established policy emphasizing the importance of considering and analyzing potential climate change impacts when undertaking long-range planning exercises. Such plans must evaluate risks to and vulnerabilities in bureau operations and missions, and outline actions to manage these in the short- and long-term. The Department continues to develop, implement and update comprehensive plans to integrate consideration of climate change science and response strategies into operations to help make the nation’s communities, watersheds, and natural resources more resilient, and safeguard our cultural heritage. Relationship to agency strategic goals and objectives The Secretary of the Interior has identified the effects of climate change as a major challenge   affecting missions across the Department, just as the President has identified in his Climate Change Action Plan Policy and Executive Order 13514 (October 5, 2009) and on “Preparing the United States for the Impacts of Climate Change” (November 1, 2013).   The Department’s Climate Change Adaptation Policy (523 DM 1) provides a set of principles and guidance to bureaus and offices for addressing climate change impacts on the Department’s mission, programs, operations and personnel. The policy also establishes roles and responsibilities for carrying out climate change adaptation principles. Key barriers and challenges  Understanding, communicating, and responding to the diversity of impacts associated with climate change across the various landscapes of the United States is an ambitious undertaking.  Identifying similar terminology and means of measurement, engaging in collaborative communications with partners both within and outside DOI, obtaining adequate scientific understanding, and integrating various datasets and information sources are just some aspects of this undertaking that are already underway, and each of these activities is challenging. Stakeholder Engagement Climate Science Centers and Landscape Conservation Cooperatives are engaging Interior and other Federal agencies, local and State partners, and the public to craft practical, landscape-level strategies for managing climate-change impacts within the eight regions.  The Department is building the scientific and organizational infrastructure to work with partners in the development of adaptation tools and the coordination of climate-change responses at the landscape level.  We are partnering to develop state-of-the-art strategies to translate science into adaptive management and to develop robust ecological-forecasting models."
