"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of the Interior",10,DOI,"Protect America's Cultural and Heritage Resources",522,1252,"Protect cultural and historical assets and related resources","Protect and maintain the Nation’s most important historic areas and structures, archaeological sites, and museum collections.","The Department conserves the Nation’s cultural and heritage sites that reflect a rich and diverse history.  The Department safeguards our heritage for the generations that follow, to better understand our country and learn from our past. ","BLM, FWS, NPS, BIA","The Department’s protection of cultural and heritage resources has held steady with a slight uptrend over the 5-year period of 2011 to 2015 for archaeological sites, historic structures, and museum collections. The percentage of archaeological sites in good condition increased from 64 percent to 65 percent, and the percentage of historic structures in good condition increased from 54 percent to 65 percent.  Incremental improvements in efficiencies and processes resulted in gradual increases of assets brought into good condition.  Beginning in 2014, data reported for museum collections is different from earlier years due to implementation of a revised definition of a collection.  The Department exceeded its target for 2015 for historic structures in good condition. The National Park Service completed a large number of additional assessments of historic structures in 2015.  Fortunately, most of these newly assessed structures were found to be in good condition leading to a significant increase (from 13,400 to 16,373) in the number of structures in good condition. (NPS manages almost 90 percent of all DOI historic structures.) ","Natural Resources and Environment",,,
