"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Justice",11,DOJ,"Prevent Crime, Protect the Rights of the American People, and Enforce Federal Law",555,1327,"Combat the threat, trafficking, and use of illegal drugs and the diversion of licit drugs","Disrupt and dismantle major drug trafficking organizations to combat the threat, trafficking, and use of illegal drugs and the diversion of licit drugs","The Department’s drug strategy will leverage the collective talent and expertise of several federal law enforcement agencies to identify and target drug supply organizations nationwide, to attack their financial infrastructure, and to disrupt and ultimately dismantle them.  Through the formation of prosecutor-led, multi-agency task forces that conduct intelligence-driven, multi-jurisdiction investigations, the Department will continue to mount a comprehensive, multilevel, organizational attack on the drug trafficking and money laundering organizations that pose the greatest threat to the Nation.  The Department will disrupt and dismantle major drug trafficking organizations responsible for the supply of illegal or diverted drugs in the United States.  Additionally, it will use the skills of prosecutors and agents from federal, state, local, and tribal agencies to combat the most prolific drug trafficking and money laundering organizations.  Partnerships with state, local, and tribal governments, along with grants and technical assistance will help reduce the use of illegal drugs and the violence associated with that use.     The Southwest Border region is a particularly vulnerable area and has increasingly become a focal point in the national security strategy due to the considerable cross-border law enforcement challenges in the region.  The flow of narcotics north into the United States, along with the smuggling of criminal monetary proceeds and the illegal trafficking of firearms south out of the United States has had a devastating effect on the United States and Mexico, particularly along the Southwest Border.  Much of the violence along the Southwest Border region and in Mexico is perpetuated by drug trafficking organizations vying for control of trafficking routes to the United States and engaging in turf battles for disputed distribution territories.     The vast 5,225-mile border between the United States and Canada, and the evolving drug trafficking trends on both sides of that border, provide numerous challenges for law enforcement and intelligence entities operating along the Northern border under differing authorities, protocols, and expertise.  Marijuana and Ecstasy remain the most significant Northern border drug threats to the United States, while the United States remains the primary transit country for cocaine into Canada from South America.",DEA,"Strategic Objective Review Summary of Findings: On track and making satisfactory progress  The Department’s successes against dismantling and disrupting CPOT-linked drug trafficking organizations have resulted in keeping multi-ton quantities of illegal drugs from ever entering the United States.  Since 2003, OCDETF components have identified and targeted 188 CPOTS.  In FY 2015, DEA, FBI and OCDETF disrupted or dismantled 616 CPOT-linked organizations.  Additionally, from FY 2005 – FY 2015, DEA has denied over $33.1 billion in revenue to drug trafficking organizations through asset and drug seizures. Furthermore, OCDETF initiated 964 new cases and continues to maintain an active caseload of nearly 5,000 investigations. On October 15, 2015, the DEA-led fifteen-month operation entitled Project Synergy Phase III, culminated with a  nationwide takedown, which resulted in 151 arrests and the seizure of $15,013,522; 316 kilograms of synthetic cathinones; 3,058 kilograms of synthetic cannabinoids; 98 kilograms of treated plant material; 7,314 kilograms of synthetic cannabinoid packs (filled); and 39 weapons.  Since its initiation in December 2012, DEA’s Project Synergy overall efforts have resulted in 580 arrests and the seizure of $160,013,522 in cash/assets; 1,130 kilograms of synthetic cathinones; 9,190 kilograms of synthetic cannabinoids; 98 kilograms of treated plant material; and 53 tons of synthetic cannabinoid packs (filled).  Two other notable investigations, Project Rolling Thunder and Operation Black ICE have also been successful in combatting illicit drug enterprises. As of FY2015, Project Rolling Thunder resulted in 1,506 arrests and the seizure of 1,004  kilograms of cocaine, $23.1 million in currency, 303 pounds of heroin, 4,311 pounds of marijuana, 376 pounds of methamphetamine and 267 weapons.  In Operation Black ICE, Homeland Security Investigations-ICE, ATF, and DEA, working with Washington state and local police agencies, targeted an organization that smuggled drugs from Mexico into the U.S.  Following a lengthy investigation, the organization’s leader and 29 conspirators were arrested, agents seized multiple kilos of heroin, pounds of methamphetamine, and more than a dozen firearms, including military-style assault rifles bound for cartel members in Mexico.  To assist agents and investigations, the Department improved its deconfliction efforts by requiring law enforcement components to conduct investigative data and target deconfliction through the DEA Internet Connectivity Endeavor and by formalizing the process of event deconfliction with regional deconfliction systems. For DEA’s international partners, the relationship has been strengthened in FY 2015 by providing training to 3,691 international students and developing new curricula to respond to current trafficking situations, new technologies, and specific requests from host nation governments. The conviction rate for those individuals in all investigations remains in excess of 90 percent.  Significant challenges still exist in this area, including the rise in marijuana, heroin, synthetic drug and prescription drug abuse; changes in state drug laws, such as those for marijuana which conflict with federal laws; and the Department’s ability to hire and train new employees caused by attrition and the Department’s hiring freeze.  Investigations are increasingly more complex, requiring more sophisticated investigative techniques - such as the use of electronic surveillance.  The use of virtual payment systems and global consumer markets in cyber space make it difficult to identify, target, and investigate drug organizations.  In addition, foreign partners often lack the capacity to combat the drug trade in their own countries, creating a heavy reliance for assistance by the United States.  The Department is committed to continuing its focus on the most significant drug trafficking organizations by rigorously implementing drug control strategies, disrupting domestic drug trafficking and domestic production, strengthening international partnerships, and improving information systems for analysis, assessment, and local management.  The Department will continue to provide leadership and coordination of comprehensive, multi-jurisdictions investigations and conduct intelligence efforts to identify actionable leads. The Department will also continue setting ambitious targets for dismantling and disrupting CPOT/Regional Priority Organization Target-linked drug trafficking organizations and ensure accountability for reporting these measures.","Administration of Justice",,,
