"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Justice",11,DOJ,"Prevent Crime, Protect the Rights of the American People, and Enforce Federal Law",555,1330,"Protect the federal fisc and defend the interests of the United States","Protect the federal fisc and defend the interests of the United States","The Department of Justice is the Nation’s largest law office and chief litigator.  The Department is involved in both defending and representing hundreds of United States’ agencies, offices, and employees; in defending against myriad challenges to federal laws, programs, and policies; and in protecting the integrity of the Nation’s antitrust laws and bankruptcy system.  This work is critical to protecting the federal fisc against unwarranted monetary claims and to ensuring the United States can continue to protect the Nation’s security, maintain civil law and order, and ensure public safety.  Accordingly, the Department will continue to fulfill these responsibilities by defending the Federal Government against monetary claims and challenges to its jurisdiction and authority, including the constitutionality of statutes passed by Congress.     Defensive litigation impacts virtually every aspect of the Federal Government’s operations.  The Department represents over 200 federal agencies, the U.S. Congress, and the federal treasury in litigation arising from a broad range of monetary claims against the government, including legal action related to domestic and foreign operations, American Indian litigation, commercial activities, entitlement programs, internal revenue activities, and environmental and conservation laws.  The potential cost to the government and federal tax payers from these matters could be substantial, but through rigorous and fair representation, DOJ will continue to mitigate any potential losses and protect federal monies.","Civil Division","Strategic Objective Review Summary of Findings: On track and making satisfactory progress  The Department vigorously and successfully defended the interests of the United States and protected the federal fisc in FY 2015.  The Department has a powerful array of legal components dedicated both to affirmatively enforcing our nation’s criminal and civil laws and to defending the law and the actions of United States.  The Department entered into a national settlement agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank requiring Chase to pay more than $50 million to over 25,000 homeowners who are, or were, in bankruptcy.  Chase will also change internal operations and submit to oversight by an independent compliance reviewer.   The Department’s investigation of the foreign currency exchange (FX) spot market resulted in the prosecution of five major banks which agreed to plead guilty to felony charges.  The five banks agreed to plead guilty to conspiring to manipulate the price of U.S. dollars and euros exchanged in the FX spot market and to pay criminal fines totaling more than $2.5 billion.  The $925 million fine obtained from one of the banks was the largest criminal fine ever obtained for an antitrust charge.  A fifth bank agreed to plead guilty to manipulating the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and other benchmark interest rates and pay a $203  million criminal penalty, after breaching its non-prosecution agreement resolving the LIBOR investigation.  The total global fines and penalties obtained from the five banks for their conduct in the FX spot market was nearly $9 billion.  The Department also obtained a record-setting $4.4 billion for environmental cleanup – the largest recovery for cleanup of environmental contamination in a bankruptcy case in history – stemming from the Tronox bankruptcy case and Anadarko/Kerr McGee fraudulent conveyance proceeding.  The Department will continue to leverage technology to improve efficiency, notably including its litigation support program to review and analyze documents and electronic evidence.  In addition, DOJ will continue to aggressively represent the Federal Government in lawsuits and pursue affirmative cases in all areas – such as financial and health care fraud, antitrust violations, environmental crimes, tax evasions, and bankruptcy abuse.","Administration of Justice",,,
