"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Justice",11,DOJ,"Ensure and Support the Fair, Impartial, Efficient, and Transparent Administration of Justice at the Federal, State, Local, Tribal, and International Levels",556,1332,"Protect judges, witnesses, and other participants in federal proceedings","Protect judges, witnesses, and other participants in federal proceedings by anticipating, deterring, and investigating threats of violence","The U.S. Marshals (USMS) is the Federal Government’s primary organization for protecting judges, witnesses, and other participants in federal proceedings.  Protection is accomplished by anticipating and deterring threats to the judiciary and the continuous development and employment of innovative protective techniques.  In addition, the greater focus to apprehend and prosecute suspected terrorists will increase the demand for high-level security required for many violent criminal and terrorist-related court proceedings.  USMS will continue to develop and employ innovative techniques to protect federal judges, jurors, other participants, and members of the federal judiciary.",USMS,"Strategic Objective Summary of Findings: On track and making satisfactory progress  The USMS works closely with the U.S. Courts, U.S. Attorneys, and federal, state, and local law enforcement to ensure security for the judiciary, court personnel, witnesses, and other court participants.  These partnerships are a major component of successful performance in protecting the federal judicial system.  USMS met its outcome target by not allowing an assault against a protected court member in FY 2015.  In FY 2015, the USMS ensured a highly capable front-line defense for security at federal court facilities by providing adequate, well-trained court security personnel.  This included the award, administration, and management of contracts exceeding $350 million for a workforce of 5,000 Court Security Officers (CSOs), their annual sustainment training, and training of over 450 new CSOs.  The USMS also developed standardized training on personal security awareness for the workplace, home, off-site, and those under USMS protection, created a dedicated unit to research, test, and evaluate new equipment standards, as well as help ensure judicial security remains on the cutting edge, and full-time Center for Behavioral Analysis and the implementation of Virtual Command Centers to further evaluate threats and provide a coordinated response and recovery in the event of emergencies.  Some challenges regarding this strategic objective include the increased demand for high-level security required for many violent criminal and terrorist related court proceedings, and technology and information limitations that can impact the Department’s ability to efficiently and effectively address potential threats.  The ever increasing availability and capability of technology and information is both a challenge and an opportunity to the effective protection of the judicial process.      To counter these challenges, the Department is expanding its active shooter training and awareness to focus on multiple location scenarios, including public spaces and courthouses.  The Department also continues to place physical access control systems in courthouses nationwide and enhance offsite security for protectees based on risk or threat assessment and install video conferencing systems to allow protected witnesses to appear at a court proceeding without having to travel to court cases to reduce costs to the Department.","Administration of Justice",,,
