"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Justice",11,DOJ,"Ensure and Support the Fair, Impartial, Efficient, and Transparent Administration of Justice at the Federal, State, Local, Tribal, and International Levels",556,1334,"Apprehend fugitives to ensure their appearance for federal judicial proceedings or confinement","Apprehend fugitives to ensure their appearance for federal judicial proceedings or confinement","The USMS is the Federal Government’s primary organization for apprehending fugitives from justice. USMS conducts investigations involving: escaped federal prisoners; probation, parole and bond default violators; and fugitives based on warrants generated during drug investigations.  In addition to these primary responsibilities, USMS task forces investigate and apprehend violent felony fugitives wanted by state and local authorities as well as international and foreign fugitives, gang members, and sex offenders.",USMS,"Strategic Objective Review Summary of Findings: On track and making satisfactory progress  As a result of the Presidential Threat Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law No 106-544), the USMS Investigative Operations Division established 7 strategically located, Congressionally-funded Regional Fugitive Task Forces throughout the country, while maintaining 60 district-led fugitive task forces.  These task forces operate with a “force multiplier” concept, expanding the capacity of each agency to locate and apprehend violent fugitives by combining the efforts and resources of federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies.  In FY 2015, the USMS apprehended or cleared 31,202 federal fugitives, surpassing its target.  The USMS also apprehended or cleared some 107,001federal and egregious non-federal fugitives in FY 2015.  The Department supplements its international fugitive apprehension efforts through a strategic partnership with INTERPOL Washington.  USMS personnel detailed to INTERPOL Washington’s Alien/Fugitive Division use INTERPOL Red Notices to assist in locating, apprehending, and returning fugitives wanted by the U.S. that are located in foreign countries, and fugitives wanted by foreign countries that are located in the United States.  A major accomplishment in FY 2015, the USMS placed David Sweat and Richard Matt on the “15 Most Wanted” fugitives list and worked closely with local and state police, as well as other government agencies to track the escapees.  Soon after the escape, the USMS began to offer monetary rewards in an attempt to acquire information regarding the fugitives.  The USMS played an integral role in the capture of the two escaped suspects in late June 2015  Officer safety remains a major concern.  The Department developed an Officer Safety Training Policy to ensure that all officer safety training is taught in a consistent manner and created a network of Tactical Training Officers to support the implementation of the USMS High Risk Fugitive Apprehension program; over 100 Deputy U.S. Marshals have completed this training.  The Department also  implemented standard operating procedures for taskforces outlining fugitive case adoption criteria, procedures and validation to focus on the cases posing the greatest risk to communities, and leverages advanced electronic surveillance and investigative processes to strengthen intelligence gathering and information sharing efforts to more effectively pursue and apprehend fugitives.","Administration of Justice",,,
