"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Justice",11,DOJ,"Ensure and Support the Fair, Impartial, Efficient, and Transparent Administration of Justice at the Federal, State, Local, Tribal, and International Levels",556,1335,"Reform and strengthen America's criminal justice system","Reform and strengthen America’s criminal justice system by targeting only the most serious offenses for federal prosecution, expanding the use of diversion programs, and aiding inmates in reentering society","Even as most crime rates decline, the Department needs to examine new law enforcement strategies and better allocate our resources to keep pace with today’s continuing threats as violence spikes in some of our greatest cities.  The Department needs fresh solutions for assisting victims and empowering survivors of violent crime and sexual assault.  Although illegal drug use has been reduced to the lowest levels in three decades, a vicious cycle of poverty, criminality, and incarceration traps too many Americans and weakens too many communities.  While the population of the United States has grown by about one third since 1980, the federal prison population has grown by more than 800 percent in the same time period.   Incarceration should be used to punish, deter, and rehabilitate – not merely to warehouse and forget.  Additionally, federal detention and prison spending is on an unsustainable track and has increasingly displaced other important Department public safety investments – including resources for investigation, prosecution, prevention, intervention, prisoner reentry, and assistance to state and local law enforcement.  The Department must keep taking steps to make sure that people feel safe and secure in their homes and communities and that public safety is protected in the most efficient and effective way.","U.S. Attorneys","Strategic Objective Review Summary of Findings: On track and making satisfactory progress  The fundamental principles underlying Strategic Objective 3.4 is articulated most fully in the Department’s Smart on Crime Initiative which is designed to help ensure that federal criminal laws are enforced fairly and more efficiently.  In FY 2015, the Department continued to expand successful diversion and reentry programs and directed prosecutors, in appropriate circumstances involving non-violent offenses, to consider alternatives to incarceration, such as drug courts, other specialty courts, or other diversion program.  Among the programs, the Department exceeded its annual target for the number of inmates participating in drug abuse treatment programs and working in Federal Prison Industries (FPI).   Additionally, the Post-Release Employment Project, initiated by the Department, demonstrated that FPI efforts help to increase the likelihood that inmates will successfully reintegrate into society following release.  The Post-Release Employment project is a proven recidivism-reducing program that teaches offenders marketable work skills and a general work ethic, thereby increasing opportunities for viable, sustained employment upon release.  In FY 2015, the federal prison population dropped by nearly 8,426 inmates.  The BOP expects the population to decline by another 15,600 inmates by the end of FY 2016.  This, combined with the FY 2014 and FY 2015 decreases, would generate a decrease of nearly 13 percent from the more than 219,000 BOP prisoners in FY 2013  As the Department continues to implement the Smart on Crime Initiative, there are challenges ahead, such as successful implementation of the Department’s drug abuse, educational, vocational, and behavioral modification programs that depends on the motivation levels of inmates to participate and succeed.  In addition, Residential Reentry Centers’ capacity development has been slow due to community resistance, impacting the Department’s ability to support reentry and reduced recidivism programs.  Moreover, there is the uncertainty of knowing long term cost-benefit calculus of reentry and diversion programs.  While cost savings are clear, its effectiveness in reducing recidivism is not fully known at this point.   For the future, the Department will continue to implement the Smart on Crime Initiatives, including compassionate release in an effort to help the Department consider alternatives to incarceration.  The Department will also continue to use the Short-term Interventions for Success to reduce re-arrest rates and the length of imprisonment for low level offenders.","Administration of Justice",,,
