"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Commerce",6,DOC,"Expand the U.S. economy through increased exports and inward foreign investment that lead to more and better American jobs",574,1842,"Strengthen fair competition in international trade for U.S. firms and workers by addressing and resolving foreign unfair trade practices and enforcing international trade agreements (ITA)","Strengthen fair competition in international trade for U.S. firms and workers by addressing and resolving foreign unfair trade practices and enforcing international trade agreements (ITA)","Efforts to enhance U.S. commercial competitiveness and maximize potential U.S. exports can be thwarted by unfair and injurious practices of foreign firms and their governments.  Only with a level playing field can U.S. companies strengthen and develop the capacity to expand into new markets or maintain market share at home and abroad.     As the federal agency charged with administering the U.S. antidumping and countervailing duty laws, the Department’s International Trade Administration (ITA) helps domestic manufacturers compete against unfairly traded imports into the United States.  ITA’s petition counseling unit helps U.S. workers and firms who assert damage from violations.  Focus is on assuring that small and medium-sized enterprises understand their rights and the requirements for filing a petition to initiate an investigation of possible foreign dumping and subsidization.  Once petitions seeking relief under the trade remedy laws are filed, ITA investigates the allegations. When imports are found to be dumped or subsidized and a cause of injury to U.S. industry, ITA instructs U.S. Customs and Border Protection to collect duties to offset the impact.     The Department also offers assistance to U.S. exporters and investors, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, by coordinating government resources to overcome trade barriers.  This assistance educates U.S. industry on international trade agreements that maintain open markets . ITA’s trade experts monitor foreign government compliance with the more than 250 trade agreements so companies, investors, and workers realize the benefits of the agreements.  Through its full range of legal, analytical, investigatory, trade policy, and commercial expertise, the Department provides robust and comprehensive services to help U.S. exporters confront, forestall, and resolve foreign unfair trade practices.",,"During FY 2014, the Department of Commerce (DOC) made good progress toward strengthening fair competition in international trade for U.S. firms and workers through execution on several key strategies supporting this objective:  enforcement of U.S. antidumping and countervailing duty trade remedy laws; monitoring and ensuring compliance with trade agreements;  and enhancing partnership with U.S. enforcement agencies and private sector stakeholders to identify and thwart evasion of border measures.     Achieving compliance by U.S. trading partners with their trade agreement commitments is not entirely within the power of the U.S. Government, as it also requires foreign governments to take steps to honor their obligations.  This process may take a long time and can be subject to factors such as trade agreement negotiations being in process, legal changes being enacted by foreign legislatures, or progress of work through the World Trade Organization (WTO) Committee process.  Moreover, simultaneous negotiation of Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) trade agreements has increased the burden on limited trade agreements compliance resources.  Despite this continually challenging context, and despite undertaking the most significant volume of new investigations in well over a decade, the International Trade Administration’s (ITA)/ Enforcement and Compliance (E&C) program successfully issued 387 determinations related to its Antidumping (AD)/Countervailing Duty (CVD) casework and resolved 20 ITA/E&C-led trade agreement compliance cases over the course of FY 2014.     FY 2014 Accomplishments include:      	Issued 387 AD/CVD determinations covering a number of diverse products ranging from Chinese solar cells to Mexican sugar, and oil country tubular goods from seven countries. This includes 64 determinations on AD/CVD investigations. 	Conducted 318 petition counseling sessions with companies or their representatives regarding use of the AD/CVD trade remedy laws. 	Participated in joint Homeland Security Investigations (HSI)/Customs and Border Protection (CBP) training seminars on recognizing and preventing evasion of AD/CVD orders and conducted update webinar for CBP port officials and brokers on AD/CVD enforcement and related issues. 	Partnered with CBP to improve enforcement of AD/CVD proceedings on steel products through participation in Steel Customs Fraud Symposium organized by the North American Steel Industry Association. 	Supported USG efforts to conclude WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement negotiations and then used targeted Department of Commerce senior leader advocacy in USG efforts to break an unanticipated deadlock. 	96% of new E&C compliance cases were reviewed for trade agreement relevance within the required 10 business day deadline.      Next Steps in FY 2015:                                                                                                     	Continue timely issuance of AD/CVD determinations. 	Develop and implement outreach strategies to educate importers, brokers and downstream customers regarding how to identify and report AD/CVD fraud and evasion to appropriate authorities. 	Support USG approval of New Zealand and Montenegro joining the WTO Agreement on Government Procurement (GPA).   U.S. industry will then be guaranteed access and fair treatment in these countries’ procurement markets. 	Expand collaborative Commerce/DHS initiatives to combat AD/CVD fraud to include working with the CBP Centers of Expertise and Excellence (CEEs) and CBP’s National Targeting Center (NTAC). 	Increase participation in joint HSI/CBP training seminars on preventing evasion of AD/CVD orders and in update webinars for CBP port officials and brokers on AD/CVD issues. 	Use bilateral engagement to seek remaining developing country notification of which WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement commitments they will, as allowed, implement upon entry of Agreement into force. 	Design and implement a system to replace aging/inadequate system of monitoring and managing AD/CVD caseload. 	Conduct outreach to Customs Brokers and importers to combat AD/CVD fraud and evasion issues. 	Complete entry into force of the WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement; begin monitoring and where needed seeking country compliance with its disciplines.","International Affairs",1428,"FY14-15 : Companies assisted by Global Markets that achieve export objectives","Exports are important to U.S. economic prosperity. The International Trade Administration (ITA) is committed to providing high-quality assistance that helps U.S. companies achieve their export objectives. This priority goal focuses on improving the quality of assistance ITA’s trade and commercial specialists provide to companies. ITA’s delivery of substantive, high value-added assistance is affirmed when companies receiving this assistance respond that they have achieved their export objectives. The Global Markets business unit within ITA is the organizational lead on this priority goal. It is imperative that Global Markets staff worldwide – all of whom interact with U.S. companies – are unified behind a common goal that focuses on unique needs of our customers. The FY12 – FY13 baseline average percentage of companies assisted that achieved their export objectives is 67 percent for ITA’s fee-for-service clients. To achieve this priority goal, Global Markets has sought to understand individual U.S. company needs to be successful internationally and, subsequently, offered a customized approach that draws on the full resources available across ITA and the Federal Government to meet those needs. This strategic shift towards offering a more consultative approach steers ITA professionals toward identifying the problems and challenges with exporting, and designing holistic solutions. It focuses ITA on engaging with clients to offer substantive, high value-added assistance, such as helping companies select the best markets to enter, overcoming export trade barriers, or finding suitable international business partners."
