"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of the Interior",10,DOI,"Develop the next generation of lifelong conservation stewards and ensure our own skilled and diverse workforce pipeline",1807,2979,"Provide conservation work and training opportunities for young people","Number of work and training opportunities provided to young people.","Young people’s involvement in the Department’s stewardship activities provides benefits that are far reaching, including: educating a generation about nature and the values surrounding conservation; infusing energy and new thinking into the Federal Government; creating opportunities to improve the health of younger generations; providing hands-on green job experience and career pathways; and supplying important economic benefits in both rural and urban communities.  The Department’s bureaus and offices are taking a number of steps to engage the next generation in the Department’s conservation work, including partnering with schools, coordinating volunteers, and welcoming young people to play, learn, serve, and work in the outdoors.  With one-third of the Department’s workforce eligible to retire within the next 5 years, engaging the next generation is critical not only for the health of our public lands and economy, it also is key to ensuring a new generation of land managers, wildlife biologists, tribal experts, park rangers, scientists, civil engineers, lawyers, and the many other professionals that enable the Department to carry out its diverse missions.","All Bureaus","Engaging the Millennial generation in employment supports the Secretary of the Interior’s goal of providing 100,000 work and training opportunities between FY 2014 and FY 2017 to individuals up to the age of 35.  The Department offers a variety of opportunities through partnerships with tribes, colleges and universities, corporate networks, other Federal agencies, non-government organizations, and DOI Bureaus to provide employment for Millennials.  Increasing partner participation has helped increase overall levels of engagement, and the Department will continue to pursue partner opportunities to engage the next generation of conservation stewards.  In FY 2015, the Department leveraged collaborative efforts across all levels of government and mobilized the 21st Century Conservation Service Corps to provide opportunities to work in programs related to natural resources, forestry, engineering, water conservation, climate change, earth and biological sciences, agriculture and rangeland.  These opportunities ensured a continued appreciation for conserving our natural and cultural resources, and provided invaluable exposure to career opportunities available in conservation.","Natural Resources and Environment",390,"FY14-15 : Engaging the Next Generation","a.  Problem or opportunity being addressed The future of the Country’s natural, cultural and historic heritage depends on the next generation of active stewards.  The Millennial generation, defined as individuals born in 1980 or later, is larger, more urban and diverse than any generation in our history.  Yet Millennials have grown up more disconnected from the natural world.  As Secretary Sally Jewell indicated,  “Engaging the millennial generation in service on public lands, welcoming them into the Department of the Interior, and so many other opportunities to have work within public lands management, is going to be a critical part of our future, if we care about these special places that help define us.” Secretary Sally Jewell, March 14, 2014 – Announcing the Next Generation Priority            http://www.doi.gov/youth/news/engaging-the-next-generation.cfm The underlying objective of Interior's Engaging the Next Generation priority is to establish meaningful and deep connections between young people from every background and every community to the great outdoors. Interior is investing millions of dollars in our Engaging the Next Generation priority to inspire millions of young people to play, learn, serve and work outdoors.  To that end, Interior has established a goal of providing 100,000 work and training opportunities over four years to individuals up to the age of 35.   In support of this long-term goal, the FY 2014-FY 2015 priority goal is being extended to include ages 15-35 in providing 40,000 work and training opportunity over the two year period, starting in FY 2015.  This priority goal complements Interior’s efforts to develop a 21st Century Workforce.  The Department benefits from a workforce that is passionate about the mission, dedicated to public service, and highly skilled and knowledgeable.  Across Interior, 40% of our permanent workforce will be eligible to retire within the next five years.   Providing a variety of work and training opportunities to students and recent graduates is critical to our succession planning.  b.  Relationship to agency strategic goals and objectives This priority goal supports Strategic Plan mission area 4, “Engaging the Next Generation” as well as efforts to create a 21st Century Workforce.  The priority goal aims to address reductions in work and training opportunities created by fiscal challenges in FY 2013 and builds upon the number of opportunities provided in FY 2010-FY 2012.  This priority goal for work and training opportunities builds upon other Engaging the Next Generation initiatives at DOI.  The Department’s goal of engaging youth in conservation includes programs to encourage the nation’s youth to play, learn, serve, and work in the great outdoors.  As the culmination of this four pronged approach, work and training opportunities for youth depend in great part on successful efforts to promote recreation on DOI-managed public lands, encourage the nation’s educators to bring our natural environment into classrooms, and cultivate a culture of service in support of conservation and natural resource management. c.  Key barriers and challenges  Work and training opportunities, both directly by the Department and through partners, must occur within a specific time-frame for seasonal and temporary summer employment in order to secure commitments from participants.  If bureaus miss the window of opportunity during the limited time-frame, participants may seek employment opportunities elsewhere.  Additionally, with approximately one-third of DOI youth employment stemming from partnership agreements, budget uncertainty creates significant challenges to Bureaus’ ability to enter into partnership agreements, particularly for the peak hiring seasons when colleges are out of session.  These public/private partnership efforts help to leverage Federal dollars, in some cases by a 3 to 1 ratio, and assist the Department in increasing youth employment opportunities. In FY 2013, fiscal and budgetary challenges significantly impacted the Department’s ability to fund work and training opportunities for youth.  Furthermore, the timing of the budgetary uncertainty, as well as the implementation of new models of youth employment across the government, via the Pathways program, made timely hiring of youth for those available positions difficult.  Should current budgetary and fiscal trends continue, the Department expects these to pose a barrier to fulfillment of this goal. d.  Stakeholder Engagement Key partners include the over 150 members of the Corps Network that engage 30,000 young people in all 50 States in addition to the work of the Public Lands Service Coalition.  These public/private partnership efforts help to leverage Federal dollars in some cases 3 to 1 and have assisted the Departments in increasing youth employment opportunities.  In addition, there are many non-profit, corporate, state, local and tribal entities that partner with the Department to enhance volunteer service opportunities and youth employment in the great outdoors. It will continue to be important to engage these stakeholders as we implement related recommendations for the broader youth stewardship and engagement priority goal."
