"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Homeland Security",24,DHS,"Mission 3:  Enforce and Administer our Immigration Laws",3254,30982,"Goal 3.2: Prevent Unlawful Immigration","Prevent Unlawful Immigration","The increased movement of people and goods across our borders provides many opportunities but also provides more places for illegal goods, unauthorized migrants, and threats to hide. Unauthorized migration is influenced by many factors, including weak rule of law and violence in sending countries. In addition, violent extremists and criminals can hide within this larger flow of migrants who intend no harm.  We will pursue the following strategies to prevent unlawful immigration:   	Prevent unlawful entry, strengthen enforcement, and reduce drivers of unlawful immigration by: 1) increasing situational awareness of our borders; 2) ensuring that only those abroad who are eligible receive travel documents to the United States; and 3) identifying and removing criminal aliens, individuals who pose a threat to public safety, health, or national security, repeat immigration law violators, and other individuals prioritized for removal. We also reduce the demand for illegal immigrants by conducting inspections, audits, and investigations of employers who hire illegal immigrants and administering tools such as E-Verify to facilitate employers’ ability to hire eligible workers in compliance with immigration laws. 	Arrest, detain, and remove criminals, fugitives, and other dangerous foreign nationals by leveraging federal information sharing and state, local, and federal criminal justice systems to take enforcement action based on priorities with regard to criminal aliens, and working with the Department of Justice to ensure more timely hearing of immigration cases and appeals.",,"To prevent unlawful immigration, enforcement activities must address conditions and factors that create incentives for those illegally entering and staying within the United States.  Enforcement efforts must also prioritize the identification and removal of dangerous foreign nationals who threaten our national security or the safety of our communities and must include safe and humane detention conditions and respect for due process and civil rights as accorded by law.  DHS efforts to prevent unlawful immigration continue to show encouraging signs of progress.  Led by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, criminal alien removals as a percent of overall removals continues to improve and is approaching 60 percent—increasing public safety and demonstrating the Department’s focus on prioritizing enforcement efforts.  In addition, for those aliens entering the detention system, the average length of stay and the average cost of detention are meeting targets.  A strong driver of unlawful immigration is the opportunity for employment.  U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has enrolled more than 500,000 employers in the E-Verify program.  E-Verify helps deter those not authorized to work in the United States as employers are able to verify employment eligibility.  This success is supported by a reduction in the percent of potential fraud findings during site visits.  While there are unique risks, challenges, and opportunities facing each individual component, the potential for Comprehensive Immigration Reform poses the most uncertainty to future operations, quality control, workload management, and system load capabilities.  Going forward, DHS will focus on continuous improvement to mitigate these potential challenges and to ensure lasting success.  Each contributing program has identified critical action items to address improvements to existing systems, implementation of new programs, or execution of existing strategic plans.  In addition, securing access to information and ensuring information availability to decision makers is critical among all DHS Components.  Overall Assessment:  Performance for this goal is satisfactory.  No specific actions regarding changes to policy, regulations, or budget were identified in the review.  The strategic review highlighted activities associated with implementation strategies, process improvement, systems improvements, reaction to legislation, and information sharing that will continue to advance progress on this goal.","National Defense",454,"FY14-15 : Enforce and administer our immigration laws through prioritized detention and removal of criminal aliens","U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) is committed to identifying, arresting, detaining, prosecuting, and removing aliens who present a danger to national security or are a risk to public safety, as well as those who otherwise undermine the integrity of our immigration laws and our border control efforts.  These include, but are not limited to aliens engaged in or suspected of terrorism or espionage, violent criminals, felons and repeat offenders, and organized criminal gang members.  Also critical to ICE enforcement priorities are recent illegal border crossers. This goal is a continuation of effort began in FY12 to increase efficiencies in the process of detaining and removing illegal aliens.  The focus for the next two years will be to showcase ICE’s abilities to remove criminal aliens from the United States.  These efforts include identifying and apprehending at-large criminal aliens, and expanding coverage in jails and prisons in order to identify and process removable incarcerated foreign-born detainees. ICE uses prosecutorial discretion which improves efficiencies by identifying and eliminating low priority cases clogging the immigration system.  The use of prosecutorial discretion also allows ICE to prioritize the use of its enforcement personnel, detention space, and removal assets to ensure that the aliens it removes represent, as much as reasonably possible, the agency's enforcement priorities, namely the promotion of national security, border security, public safety, and the integrity of the immigration system.  "
