"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"MG2 Timely, Accurate, and Responsive Customer Service",3269,3272,"MG02.03 Improve IT Capabilities to interface with customers",,"Using multiple, integrated IT platforms to interface with customers from all communities and diverse backgrounds, including USAJOBS, USAStaffing, Retirement Services Online, Employee Express, and OPM.gov. 	Providing web based tutorials for customers. 	Developing web based media kits for customers. 	Sharing results of customer service survey with the public in a meaningful way (e.g. metrics and dashboard).",,"OPM’s commitment to excellent customer service extends to electronic platforms such as websites and other online resources. In FY 2015, OPM launched the Retirement Studio on the Human Resources University (HRU) website, a public-facing website with extra features for Federal Government employees. The HRU Retirement Studio provides access to retirement training, webcasts, videos, and other retirement resources for agency benefit officers and other Federal employees. OPM also hosted three virtual seminars—two seminars related to Federal employee and retiree benefits and one on a variety of Federal HR and human capital issues.  These virtual seminars provided important information to HR specialists across Government on policies and procedures that apply to throughout the employee and retiree lifecycle while reducing costs compared to in-person seminars.     In addition, OPM updated the USAJOBS Contact Us page. The updated page provides users with on-screen help text, based on the topic selected, thus reducing the need to generate support tickets. OPM’s Retirement Services also created a web-based moving toolkit to help annuitants think through decisions related to their OPM benefits prior to a move and conduct any relevant transactions after their move.","General Government",,,
