"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"MG3 Evidence-Based Policy and Practices",3274,3278,"MG03.04 Make data analytics a fundamental part of OPM culture","An increasing number of OPM analysts trained on accessing data from OPM sources. 	Improvement in stakeholder perceptions of the quality (relevance, timeliness, accuracy and transparency) of our analytic products.","Providing training to OPM employees on data analysis and navigating cross-agency data sets. 	Creating business processes to manage the access to and use of data by employees and ensure compliance with applicable legal requirements. 	Publishing an annual report discussing progress and challenges related to data analysis. 	Providing tools directly linked to findings. 	Providing training to OPM employees to navigate cross-agency data.",,"OPM launched the USA Staffing® system upgrade, which supports recruitment data standards for reporting and systems integration.  The agency also implemented USA Staffing® customer data delivery through standard, ad hoc reporting, and data self-service.  OPM will further expand the business availability of recruitment and staffing data with a data warehouse, which the agency will build with recruitment and staffing data standards aligned to OPM’s enterprise architecture.  OPM successfully launched basic data analytics training as an online course available to all employees.  Also in FY 2015, OPM procured contractor support to develop decision making training, which the agency launched in September 2015.  The contractor will also provide advanced data analytics training for execution in FY 2016, with the potential for further development of a certification program in data analytics for OPM employees.     A challenge with the medium of delivery is that it is self-paced, so individuals complete the course as their schedule permits, which can create significant periods of delay from when an individual begins a course to the time of completion. Because of the self-paced nature of the training, OPM encounters a significant risk of losing the interest of participants because their work responsibilities take precedence.     OPM will explore providing participants email reminders to complete the training course and badges as a means to recognize progress to date and to encourage them to complete the entire course.     OPM has leveraged the its data analytic ambassadors who have the responsibility of serving as a liaison between the goal 3 project team and individuals within their respective divisions to communicate the courses’ availability, as well as the content and benefits to completing the training.","General Government",,,
