"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"MG4 Efficient and Effective Information Systems",3279,3281,"MG04.02 Implement enabling successful practices and initiatives that strengthen IT leadership and governance","Achieving agreed completion milestones for systems and initiatives planned and funded for the next 4 years that has been prioritized and approved through Governance.","Enhancing the OPM Director’s ability to establish strategy and policy across the HR life cycle. 	Enabling the Chief Human Capital Officers Council to work with the OPM Director to translate the HR strategy and policy into business and policy requirements for HR IT systems. 	Positioning the OPM CIO as the Federal HR CIO responsible for setting government-wide HRIT strategic direction and standards for HR IT service providers. 	Establishing a flexible capital planning and investment management process within OPM that provides transparency of IT expenditures and IT program/project performance. 	Establishing client and stakeholder engagement practices focused on measuring the cost, quality and compliance of Shared Service Center IT capabilities. 	Developing an enterprise architecture that supports the HR life cycle as documented in the HRLOB BRM. 	Establishing standards for managing OPM IT programs / projects and providing oversight to measure their performance. 	Identifying qualified and trained / certified IT customer relationship managers for each OPM business unit to ensure partnership and collaboration between the OPM CIO and the Assistant Directors and Office Heads. 	Establishing service level agreements and program plans that document expectations of the CIO and business unit leaders to achieve affordable, responsive HR IT capabilities. 	Establishing a data management program that provides greater access to HR data and enables data analytics that informs policy and decisions. 	Incorporating portfolio goals into SES performance management system.","Office of the Chief Information Officer","The creation of several new positions is one result of the completion of phase one of the CIO reorganization, including the creation of an IT Project Management Office to oversee all CIO projects.  Dedicated IT project managers will support OPM business lines.  OPM incorporated the portfolio goals into the CIO leadership performance standards.  OPM continues to make strides in improving IT governance, such as reestablishing an Investment Review Board with an updated charter.   The agency established decision criteria for the selection of IT investments, and created the Health of IT dashboard to define a standard set of categories to review and report on such investments.  OPM completed the acquisition of a software solution that will be used to manage OPM’s Enterprise Architecture, including the documentation of the “as is” and definition of the “to be.”  Phase one of the rollout will include the creation of application and asset inventories.  OPM continued to work on improvements to IT security, transitioning security monitoring from Designated Security Officers in the program offices to Information System Security Officers centralized within IT Security and Privacy.  This remediated a Federal Information Security Management Act weakness identified during inspector general audits.  The centralization of the Information System Security Officers increases the consistency with which OPM monitors its systems.   In addition, the Security Operation Center worked with OPM’s Network Management to implement tactical steps to strengthen the agency’s security posture.  This included upgrades to tools used to monitor OPM’s network.  The agency also signed an agreement with DHS to implement the Continuous Diagnostic and Mitigation program.  This will be a multi-phase project with the first four controls implemented by the end of FY 2016.  OPM experienced multiple challenges in 2015.  The CIO reorganization took longer than expected, causing delays in re-aligning resources to support the implementation of the Strategic Plan.  The IT Strategic Plan called for the reallocation of existing manpower and other resources for IT governance.  While the CIO was able to complete the phase one reorganization, additional phases are still required to complete the realignment.  Further, due to the age of some OPM systems, the agency has been unable to meet all Federal Information Security Management Act requirements.  In addition, OPM discovered multiple intrusions resulting in breaches of OPM data.  These breaches created multiple challenges, including the need to shift resources and re-prioritize work.  OPM, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, has highlighted this strategy as a focus area for improvement.      ","General Government",,,
