"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"SG7 Improved Retirement Benefit Service",3296,3301,"SG07.03 Improve OPM service to Federal agency benefit officers","Train and certify agency benefit/retirement officers who have not been trained on retirement services","Developing an agency benefit officers’ service delivery model emphasizing shared responsibility for benefits/retirement among employees, OPM and agencies. 	Defining standards for agency benefit officers, measuring their results, and recognizing them for exceptional customer service. 	Develop training certification for agency benefit/retirement officers on retirement services.","Retirement Services","OPM works with agency benefits officers to ensure accurate and complete retirement claim submissions. To provide better service, OPM solicits feedback from agency benefits officers on their needs. In FY 2015, OPM emailed the Annual Training Survey to more than 1,100 benefits officers. The survey results create the foundation of the upcoming year’s training plan. OPM provided webcast sessions and a virtual training event. As a result of feedback it received, OPM delivered six new webcasts in FY 2015 for the HR community through the OPM YouTube channel and the OPM website, resulting in more than 20,000 views. Webinar views continue to grow as additional benefits officers take the online trainings.     OPM also delivered two virtual benefits officers training seminars in November and June on benefits initiatives, shared best practices, and crosscutting issues in retirement, insurance, and Thrift Savings Plan administration. The events also featured information on OPM’s Retirement Audit initiative and how to provide a “healthy” retirement case to OPM.     In FY 2015, budget constraints across the Federal Government resulted in OPM’s cancellation of its annual Agency Benefit Officers’ Training conference. To continue to meet benefits officers’ mandatory training needs, OPM dedicated time and resources to developing virtual benefits officers training seminars.  OPM, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, has highlighted this strategy as a focus area for improvement   ","General Government",,,
