"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"SG8 Enhanced Federal Workforce Integrity ",3297,3303,"SG08.02 Hold agencies accountable for maintaining efficient, effective and compliant human capital management programs and accountability systems","70% or greater of agency human capital offices evaluated demonstrate progress in improving their human capital programs after implementing OPM required and recommended actions.  80% or greater of all required actions cited in reports are addressed by agencies within prescribed timeframes.  80% or greater of Delegated Examining Units with severe problems demonstrate satisfactory level of competence within one year or cease to independently operate.","Evaluating agencies’ human capital management programs and accountability systems for effectiveness, efficiency, and compliance with law and regulation. 	Ensuring OPM’s products and services are designed to help agencies maintain efficient, effective, and compliant human capital management programs 	Ensuring agencies take corrective actions when high-risk vulnerabilities and violations of law in human capital management programs are identified. 	Exploring options to strengthen OPM’s enforcement authorities or measures when agencies fail to meet regulatory requirements. 	Developing work products and processes that increase transparency and strengthen agency senior leader commitment and support in ensuring their human capital management programs are efficient, effective, and compliant, including 	 		a dashboard of human capital management targets to increase agency awareness and drive improvement efforts, 		 information on effective human capital management programs, practices, and strategies Government-wide and agency-specific problematic trends, root causes, and improvement strategies.","Merit System Accountability and Compliance","OPM issued 27 agency evaluation reports for FY 2015, 25 of which included required actions.  In addition, 29 agency report responses were due by the end of FY 2015, and the agency received all 29.  Based on these responses, 83 percent of the Human Capital or HR offices evaluated have demonstrated progress to date by addressing corrective actions.  Agencies are expected to address required actions contained in OPM reports within specified timeframes.  As of the end of FY 2015, 85 percent of the required actions were addressed within OPM timeframes.     Also in FY 2015, OPM issued more than 260 Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) certificates to hiring agencies; administered the ALJ examination to several hundred applicants; processed approximately 300 ALJ personnel actions; and processed more than 180 loan requests/extensions.     Personnel and travel resource limitations continue to constrain OPM’s ability to maintain a robust evaluation program.  As of August 2014, the agency had reduced its initial planned number of evaluations for FY 2015 from 124 to 112, and additional reductions may be necessary.  Other challenges include the ever-present potential for litigation that attends substantial work on a competitive examining program and associated costs, receiving timely payment of assessment fees from ALJ hiring agencies, and obtaining ALJ surge support to administer the ALJ examination in mass in a timely manner.","General Government",,,
