"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Office of Personnel Management",27,OPM,"SG9 Healthier Americans",3298,3307,"SG09.02 Optimize insurance related business processes",,,"Healthcare and Insurance","During FY 2015, OPM developed an FEHB Health Plan Performance Assessment system to measure and reward FEHB plan performance through the use of common, objective, and quantifiable performance measures by the 2016 plan year.  This is a new approach to assessing the annual performance of health plans contracted under the program.  The performance assessment framework includes a discrete set of qualitative and quantifiable performance measures to assess key aspects of clinical quality, customer service, and resource use performance.  Contracting officer’s oversight is also included in the categories of plan performance.  The overall assessment is then linked to health plan profit factors.  There are three primary quantitative categories of health plan performance in the assessment:  improving health outcomes through quality care, providing effective customer service, and controlling cost growth.     The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 amended the FEHB statute to provide for a self plus one enrollment option in addition to the current self only and self and family enrollment options.  During FY 2015, OPM worked with agencies, shared service centers, and Federal retirement programs to amend IT systems to accommodate the new enrollment option.  OPM also worked closely with FEHB carriers to amend their IT systems and to submit rate proposals for the 2016 plan year that reflected the expected resource use of the self plus one enrolled population.  The 2015 Open Season is the first opportunity for employees and retirees to enroll in self plus one.     OPM is also increasing IT security efforts and oversight for FEHB plans. OPM issued guidance to carriers on reporting security breaches and will continue to work with agency stakeholders on ensuring contractors follow IT security requirements.     One of OPM’s challenges is to ensure covered enrollees and family members have access to affordable health care.  The inclusion of ineligible family members under self and family enrollments can adversely impact premium cost.  The extent of ineligible family members covered under FEHB self and family enrollments are currently unknown. To address this gap, OPM procured the services of a contractor to perform an audit on a representative sample of family members on enrollees FEHB coverage to determine ineligible family members.  The vendor is currently conducting an assessment, and OPM expects to review the results of the assessment in FY 2016.","General Government",43492,"FY16-17 : FEHB Plan Performance","To establish a consistent assessment system that includes objective performance standards, OPM has developed the FEHB Plan Performance Assessment. This assessment incorporates a discrete set of quantifiable measures to examine key aspects of health plan performance and a contract oversight evaluation by the contract officer. The FEHB Plan Performance Assessment will be linked to health plan profit. Quantifiable measures are grouped into three performance areas: Clinical Quality, Customer Services, and Resource Use (collectively termed QCR). The QCR measures consist of Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) and Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (CAHPS) measures. The National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) oversees the set of HEDIS and CAHPS measures which is used nationwide to measure performance of health plans in various areas. OPM is using NCQA’s national or regional benchmarks in the FEHB Plan Performance Assessment.   To focus attention on priority issues, OPM has developed a hierarchy for the QCR measures. In assigning priority levels to measures, OPM considered whether the measure assessed health outcomes, supported specific OPM policy priorities, and was relevant to FEHB subpopulations with particular health needs. Improvement on these high priority measures will indicate improved quality and carrier focus on critical healthcare areas for the FEHB Program.   This assessment system directly supports Goal 9 of the 2014-2018 OPM Strategic Plan by requiring that FEHB health plans meet rigorous industry standards and higher levels of health plan accountability. These higher standards and increased accountability lead to higher quality health benefits available to federal employees, federal retirees, their families, and newly eligible populations. This new initiative is also closely aligned with the current Administration’s goal of health care system improvement and parallels other federal agency and private payer processes."
