"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Environmental Protection Agency",20,EPA,"Protecting America's Waters",3325,3326,"Protect Human Health","Achieve and maintain standards and guidelines protective of human health in drinking water supplies, fish, shellfish, and recreational waters, and protect and sustainably manage drinking water resources.","Sustaining the quality and supply of our water resources is essential to safeguarding human health.  More than 300 million people living in the United States rely on the safety of tap water provided by public water systems that are subject to national drinking water standards.  Over the next 4 years, EPA will help protect human health and make America’s water systems sustainable and secure by:      	Providing financial assistance for  public water system infrastructure to protect and maintain drinking water quality; 	Strengthening compliance with drinking water standards; 	Continuing to protect sources of drinking water from contamination and ensuring reliable supplies of drinking water as water temperatures increase (including addressing the harmful effects of algal blooms); 	Developing new and revising existing drinking water standards to address known and emerging contaminants that endanger human health; and, 	Supporting states, tribes, and territories in their oversight of public water systems in implementing these standards, and supporting water systems directly through provision of guidance, training, and information.      While promoting sustainable management of drinking water infrastructure, we will provide needed oversight and technical assistance to states, tribes, and territories, so that their water systems comply with or exceed existing standards and are able to comply with new standards.  We will also promote the construction of infrastructure that brings safe drinking water into the homes of small, rural, and disadvantaged communities and increase efforts to guard the nation's critical drinking water infrastructure.     In addition, EPA is actively working Agency-wide and with external partners and stakeholders to implement a multi-faceted drinking water strategy.  With this approach, EPA seeks to:  address chemicals and contaminants by group, as opposed to working on a chemical-by-chemical basis; foster the development of new drinking water treatment technologies; use the authority of multiple statutes in addressing drinking water contamination; and, encourage collaboration with states and tribes to share more complete data from monitoring at public water systems.  To this end, the Agency is replacing the federal and state components of EPA’s Safe Drinking Water Information System (SDWIS) with a new system.  SDWIS Prime is designed to assist regulatory agencies with their implementation of the public water system supervision (PWSS) program, as well as improve the efficiency of sharing drinking water data among states, tribes, and the Agency.  This will allow for better targeting of federal and state funding and technical assistance resources, and improve data quality while increasing public access to drinking water data.     Science-based water quality criteria are essential to protect our public water systems, groundwater and surface water bodies, and recreational waters.  These criteria are the foundation for state and tribal tools to safeguard human health such as public advisories for beaches, fish consumption, and drinking water.  Over the next 4 years, we will expand that science to improve our understanding of emerging potential waterborne threats to human health, develop new criteria, and validate testing methods that provide quicker results and enable faster action on beach safety.     External Factors and Emerging Issues  EPA’s underground injection control (UIC) program provides a framework to ensure protection of underground sources of drinking water from endangerment related to the construction, operation, permitting, and closure of injection wells that place fluids underground for storage, disposal, enhanced recovery of oil and gas, or minerals recovery.  Natural gas plays a key role in our clean energy future.  Hydraulic fracturing is a key way to recover natural gas from sources.  EPA will ensure proper oversight of hydraulic fracturing operations in cases where diesel fuel is used by implementing permitting guidance under SDWA's Class II UIC program for hydraulic fracturing.  EPA is working with state and tribal organizations, along with other federal agencies, to develop and implement voluntary strategies for encouraging the use of alternatives to diesel in hydraulic fracturing and improving compliance with other Class II regulations, including possible risks from induced seismic events and the risk from radionuclides in disposal wells.  EPA is also continuing to work with state, tribal, and industry representatives to make UIC Class II regulations and information more transparent and to implement best practices and promote coordination between UIC and oil and gas agencies.","Office of Water","EPA has made progress addressing the safety of our nation’s drinking water, with over 93 percent of the nation’s population served by community water systems (CWSs) receiving drinking water that meets all applicable health-based drinking water standards in FY 2014. The following four examples highlight how EPA is making progress toward its drinking water objective in collaboration with states, tribes and local utilities:      	Through the DWSRF, EPA helps ensure reliable delivery of safe water to people served by small water systems by funding infrastructure improvements, with 70 percent of assistance agreements going to drinking water systems serving fewer than 10,000 people. This funding supports EPA’s cross-agency strategy of making a visible difference in communities, especially in rural and disadvantaged areas. 	EPA is achieving its priority goal of working closely with states through capacity development and optimization programs to enhance small system sustainability, principally through optimization trainings and state-EPA workgroups and products. These activities improve the states’ capability to help small systems, including drinking water systems on tribal lands, address their technical, managerial, and financial needs. 	If adopted by states, EPA’s 2012 recreational water quality criteria recommendations[1] will protect the public from exposure to harmful levels of fecal pathogens. 	More than 2,000 public water systems participating in the Unregulated Contaminant Monitoring Rule[2] survey provided drinking water monitoring data for 30 unregulated contaminants; these data support decisions on whether to establish health-based standards to protect drinking water.       [1] For more information on recreational water quality criteria, see http://water.epa.gov/scitech/swguidance/standards/criteria/health/recreation/    [2] For more information on UCMR, see http://water.epa.gov/lawsregs/rulesregs/sdwa/ucmr/     ","Natural Resources and Environment",36782,"FY16-17 : Advance resilience in the nation’s water infrastructure, while protecting public health and the environment, particularly in high-risk and vulnerable communities.","The uninterrupted delivery of safe drinking water is an integral element in maintaining the public health of the nation. Improvements in the drinking water sector preparedness to prevent and mitigate the duration and severity of interruptions to the delivery of safe drinking water continues to be necessary in light of evolving stresses, whether attributed to natural, accidental, or intentional circumstances or aging or stressed infrastructure.  Extreme weather events, sea level rise, shifting precipitation patterns and temperature variability, all intensified by climate change, have significant implications for the sustainability of the water sector. By planning for, assessing and adapting to these challenges, the water sector can fulfill their public health and environmental missions and begin the process of becoming climate ready.   Under Presidential Policy Directive 21, the President has designated EPA as the Sector Specific Agency responsible for enhancing the resilience and preparedness of the nation’s water sector, which includes about 180,000 drinking water and wastewater utilities. Further, the Department of Homeland Security has designated the water sector to be one of four “lifeline” sectors, meaning that if a disruption of service occurs in any one of these four sectors, then a community or region will experience potentially significant consequences in terms of public health, the economy, and the other critical infrastructure sectors, many of which rely on the lifeline sectors.   EPA’s green infrastructure program works with communities to assess how green infrastructure can enhance their stormwater management systems and be an integral part of their climate resiliency strategy. The agency has developed green infrastructure tools and resources for communities to use in planning their long-term stormwater actions.   EPA’s efforts to improve the resilience of the water sector derive not only from these homeland security directives, but also from its core mission as an agency, viz., the protection of public health and the environment.   Drinking water and wastewater utilities must remain operational in the face of all hazards if we are to preserve the many gains in public health and environmental protection which have been realized from the water sector. As with the other lifeline sectors, the water sector is at risk from a multitude of threats spanning natural disasters, climate change, cyber-attacks, and terrorism.   The 2002 amendments to the SDWA required drinking water systems serving more than 3,300 people to submit a vulnerability assessment to EPA. However, Congress required that such systems prepare a vulnerability assessment as a one-time mandate, not a recurring one. The statutory requirements also excluded water systems serving fewer than 3,300 people and all wastewater systems.   EPA’s water security and resilience program has developed a robust array of successful tools, training, and direct technical assistance for the water sector to improve prevention, as well as enable appropriate situational response, including application of resources, to mitigate the interruption of delivery of safe drinking water to the nation’s consumers. For instance, under EPA’s leadership, the number of intrastate mutual aid compacts (peer-to-peer assistance networks) has increased from just three states in 2006 to 49 states in 2015. Small and larger scale incidents have triggered the activation of eighty-six percent of these agreements. Despite this success, enhancing resilience competes with many other priorities within the water sector, notably, regulatory compliance, aging infrastructure, and funding inadequacies. As such, EPA continues to try to lower the barriers to adopting resilience measures by providing innovative, easy to use software tools and in person, nationwide training sessions to help water systems of all sizes and types to enhance their resilience.   In addition to motivating the water sector, EPA must be mindful of the evolving threats to the water sector. Extreme weather events, the increasing impacts of climate change, and the almost omnipresent threat of cyber-attacks in particular will impose a daunting challenge to the water sector, as evident by several recent events: the persistent drought in California and much of the west, drought then extreme flooding in Texas, storm surge in New York and New Jersey from Hurricane Sandy, and cyber intrusions into water utilities’ operations. Such threats will jeopardize the ability of the water sector to continue to fulfill its public health and environmental missions unless the sector manages to improve its resilience to all hazards.   In response, EPA has undertaken a national effort to enhance resilience—with an emphasis on severe drought, flooding, cybersecurity, and climate change—through the provision of planning tools, training sessions, and direct technical assistance.   Stormwater is an increasing water infrastructure challenge. As more land is developed with impervious surfaces, the amount of stormwater that communities must manage continues to grow. Stormwater is a significant source of water pollution, contributes to sewer overflows, and causes local flooding. As the climate changes, more precipitation and more intense rain events in certain portions of the country will further strain community stormwater management systems. In the west and southwest increasing drought conditions will emphasize the need for communities to use rain as a beneficial water resource before in can become polluted stormwater runoff."
