"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Environmental Protection Agency",20,EPA,"Addressing Climate Change and Improving Air Quality",3328,3329,"Address Climate Change","Minimize the threats posed by climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and taking actions that help to protect human health and help communities and ecosystems become more sustainable and resilient to the effects of climate change.","EPA’s strategies to address climate change reflect the President’s call to action in his Climate Action Plan (June 2013), which, among other initiatives, tasks EPA with setting carbon dioxide (CO2) standards for power plants and applying the Agency’s authorities and other tools to address hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and methane.  These strategies support the President's goal to reduce GHG emissions by 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020.[1]  EPA and its partners are developing and implementing approaches to reduce GHG emissions domestically and internationally through cost-effective, voluntary programs while pursuing additional regulatory actions as needed.  Our efforts address the following areas:     Mobile Sources      	Implementing three sets of GHG standards for vehicles and trucks, including:  two sets of GHG standards for light-duty cars and trucks (model years 2012-2016 and 2017-2025); and the first set of standards for medium- and heavy-duty trucks and buses (model years 2014-2018).  These emission standards, finalized jointly with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) fuel economy standards, will result in substantial reductions in new vehicle GHG emissions from model years 2012 through 2025.  (Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from cars and trucks is an FY 2014-2015 Agency Priority Goal.[2]) 	Carrying out the next phase of the GHG vehicle emission standards.  Consistent with the President’s Climate Action Plan, the Agency plans to propose in March 2015 a second phase of fuel efficiency and greenhouse gas emission standards for medium- and heavy-duty vehicles for model years 2018 and beyond, and plans to finalize the standards in March 2016.  This second phase of regulations will build upon the success of the first phase and offer further opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and decrease transportation fuel consumption, and is expected to benefit consumers and business by reducing the cost of transporting goods while spurring job growth and innovation in the clean energy technology sector. 	Assessing GHG control options for non-road sources, including evaluating whether and when to commence work on standards setting for GHG emissions from a wide range of non-road equipment, locomotives, marine vessels and aircraft, and transportation fuels.   Stationary Sources   	Using authority under Section 111(b) of the Clean Air Act, EPA  issued a new proposal on September 20, 2013 for GHG performance standards for new power plants and will subsequently finalize that rule after consideration of public comment as appropriate.  Using authority under Sections 111(b) and 111(d) of the Act, EPA will issue proposed GHG standards, regulations, or guidelines, as appropriate, for modified, reconstructed, and existing power plants by June 1, 2014, and finalize these standards, regulations, or guidelines by June 1, 2015. 	Collecting and publishing high-quality GHG emissions data from large direct emitters and suppliers of GHGs through the greenhouse gas reporting program to inform the public and support sound, data-driven, policy decisions on climate change. 	Implementing permitting requirements for facilities that emit large amounts of GHGs to encourage design and construction of more sustainable, efficient, and advanced processes that will contribute to a clean energy economy. 	Applying the Significant New Alternatives Policy (SNAP) program to promote the use of low global warming potential HFCs and similar chemicals.      International and Other Efforts   	Implementing proven voluntary programs that maximize GHG reductions through the greater use of technologies, products, and practices that promote energy efficiency, and renewables programs and policies that benefit the environment and human health. 	Identifying and assessing substitute chemical and ozone-depleting substances and processes for their global warming potential. 	Collaborating with countries and other international partners to reduce methane emissions and deliver clean energy to markets around the world through the Global Methane Initiative. 	Collaborating with international partners to reduce short-lived climate pollutants, including methane, black carbon, and hydrofluorocarbons, through the Climate and Clean Air Coalition. 	Educating the public about a changing climate and actions people can take to reduce GHG emissions. 	Collaborating with state, local, and tribal governments on regulatory and policy initiatives, technical assistance, and voluntary programs related to climate change mitigation and adaptation.      Adaptation  Much of EPA’s work is sensitive to weather and climate.  Consequently, the various actions EPA takes to meet its obligations and achieve its goals, including promulgating regulations and implementing programs, take these variables into consideration.  For example, potential increases in ground-level ozone due to a changing climate could make attainment or maintenance of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) more challenging.  Similarly, attaining water quality standards will become more difficult as water temperatures increase in response to climate change.  EPA must adapt and plan for future changes in climate to continue fulfilling its statutory, regulatory, and programmatic requirements.  The Agency will implement its Climate Change Adaptation Plan, and consider where it is appropriate to integrate and mainstream considerations of a changing climate into the full range of its programs to ensure they are effective under future climatic conditions.  EPA will work with state, tribal, and local partners to enhance their capacity to adapt to a changing climate.  Each of the EPA national programs and ten regional offices will implement new climate adaptation implementation plans to carry out the work called for in the Agency’s Climate Change Adaptation Plan.  EPA will also continue to collaborate with the U.S. Global Change Research Program and the Council on Climate Change Preparedness and Resilience to support the development and implementation of climate change adaptation plans by all federal agencies.[3]  Adaptation initiatives undertaken by EPA national programs and regional offices will carry out key elements of the President’s Climate Action Plan (June 2013) and aim to increase the resilience of communities and ecosystems to climate change by increasing their ability to anticipate, prepare for, respond to, and recover from the impacts of a changing climate.  EPA is encouraging and supporting smarter, more resilient investments by integrating considerations of climate change impacts and adaptive measures into major grant, loan, contract, and technical assistance programs, consistent with existing authorities.  For example, EPA is integrating climate adaptation criteria into the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Loan Funds and grants for brownfields cleanup.  EPA is also partnering with states, tribes, and urban and rural communities to integrate climate change data, models, information, and other decision-support tools into their planning processes in ways that empower them to anticipate, prepare for, and adapt to a changing climate.  As an example, EPA developed a stormwater calculator that will enable users to evaluate the effectiveness of alternative strategies for limiting stormwater runoff that can overwhelm sewer systems and spill into rivers and streams, and to identify strategies that ensure the systems are effective under future climatic conditions.     External Factors and Emerging Issues  External influences on EPA’s efforts to improve air quality and address climate change issues include the evolution of state and local transportation and energy-related policies and the impacts of a changing climate, such as changes in rainfall amount and intensity, shifting weather and seasonal patterns, and increases in flood plain elevations and sea levels.  Some of these external influences present significant challenges to the EPA’s work, whereas others, such as the growth of alternative energy sources and increased investments in energy efficiency, can improve local air quality and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.     Endnotes:   	See http://unfccc.int/files/meetings/cop_15/copenhagen_accord/application/pdf/unitedstatescphaccord_app.1.pdf. 	FY 2014-2015 Agency Priority Goal:  Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles and trucks: Through September 30, 2015, EPA in coordination with Department of Transportation’s fuel economy standards program will be implementing vehicle and truck greenhouse gas (GHG) standards that are projected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 6 billion metric tons and reduce oil consumption by about 12 billion barrels over the lifetime of the affected vehicles and trucks. 	The U.S. Global Change Research Program coordinates and integrates federal research on changes in the global environment and the implications of these changes for society, as mandated in the Global Change Research Act of 1990 (P.L. 101-606) (http://www.globalchange.gov/about/global-change-research-act.html).  In 2009, the White House Council on Environmental Quality, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration initiated the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Task Force.  When the President signed Executive Order 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance, in October 2009, he called on the Task Force to develop federal recommendations for adapting to climate change impacts both domestically and internationally.  Executive Order 13514 is available at http://www.whitehouse.gov/the_press_office/President-Obama-signs-an-Executive-Order-Focused-on-Federal-Leadership-in-Environmental-Energy-and-Economic-Performance.","Office of Air and Radiation","EPA continues to address the challenges of a changing climate and is on track to meet its strategic measures supporting this objective. EPA is developing common-sense GHG regulatory programs to curb emissions, working with state and local agencies to address sources of GHG emissions; building on its successful partnerships in such areas as the buildings, industry, and transportation sectors; and developing climate adaptation strategies.     At the macro level, environmental indicators show an overall increase in GHG emissions since 1990.[1] At the program level, EPA’s efforts are achieving real emission reductions; in 2012, EPA worked with the building, industry, and transportation sectors to avoid 638.9 million metric tons of CO2 equivalents. In June 2013, the President released the Climate Action Plan, which outlined various actions the United States will undertake to cut carbon pollution, prepare the country for the impacts of climate change, and lead international efforts to address climate change. As part of the President’s Climate Action Plan, EPA is actively developing and implementing regulations in a number of areas, including the electricity generation and transportation sectors—the two largest sources of carbon pollution in the United States.[2] Also as part of the Climate Action Plan, the President released the Interagency Methane Strategy in March 2014. This comprehensive strategy tasks EPA to cut methane emissions from key sectors—landfills, coalmines, agriculture, and oil and gas.  EPA continues to make significant progress integrating climate adaptation planning into its programs, policies, rules, and operations in support of executive order 13653. The goal of these efforts is to ensure that EPA continues to fulfill its mission to protect human health and the environment even as the climate changes, and to empower states, tribes, and local communities to increase their resilience and prepare for and respond to the impacts of climate change. EPA supports climate-resilient investments in communities across the country, and provides data, other information, and tools communities need to integrate climate adaptation into the work they do.[3]      [1] Despite increases in U.S. GHG emissions from 1990 to 2012 overall, emissions decreased between 2007 and 2011. This decline was seen for nearly all gases and sectors. The decrease in emissions can largely be attributed to lowered energy use due to slower economic growth and to fuel switching from coal to natural gas—a less carbon-intensive fuel—as the cost of natural gas decreased compared with the cost of coal. For more details, see EPA. 2014. Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks: 1990–2012. http://epa.gov/climatechange/ghgemissions/usinventoryreport.html    [2]Executive Office of the President. 2013. The President’s Climate Action Plan. http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/image/president27sclimateactionplan.pdf  White House. 2013. “Presidential Memorandum—Power Sector Carbon Pollution Standards.” http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2013/06/25/presidential-memorandum-power-sector-carbon-pollution-standards    [3] See http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/impacts-adaptation/ for EPA adaptation actions that fulfill commitments made in the President’s Climate Action Plan.   ","Natural Resources and Environment",35252||354,"FY16-17 : Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from cars and trucks.||FY14-15 : Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from cars and trucks.","Combined with DOT’s fuel efficiency standards, EPA’s vehicle GHG standards enable historic progress to be made in reducing carbon pollution and addressing climate change which threatens the public health and welfare of the American people. These standards will cut GHG emissions by about 6 billion metric tons and reduce U.S. oil consumption by about 12 billion barrels while saving consumers more than $1.7 trillion at the gas pump over the lifetime of the light-duty vehicles for model year 2012-2025. For commercial trucks, the estimated combined standards will reduce CO2 emissions by about 270 million metric tons and save about 530 million barrels of oil over the life of model year 2014 to 2018. For the passenger vehicle GHG and fuel economy standards, individual consumers will save an estimated $8,000 on fuel over the lifetime (i.e., approximately 200,000 average vehicle miles traveled (VMT)) of a model year (MY) 2025 vehicle. For the heavy-duty truck standards, the average operator of a semi-truck can pay for the technology upgrades in under a year, and have net savings of up to $73,000 over the lifetime of the truck This FY 2016-2017 APG builds upon the successes of the related FY 2014-2015 and FY 2012-2013 Agency Priority Goals related to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from transportation activities. The FY 2012-2013 APG focused on the implementation of the first light-duty vehicle standards (MY 2012-2016) and preparing for the implementation of heavy-duty standards (MY 2014-2018The FY 2014-2015 APG focused on incorporating the light-duty GHG standards for model years 2017-2025 (finalized in August 2012) and transitioning from the voluntary early credit earning phase (i.e., credit banking/trading, off-cycle credits, air-conditioning improvement credits) to full implementation of the 2014-2018 heavy-duty rule. The focus of the FY 2016-2017 APG will be on manufacturer compliance with the standards, the natural progression as the programs mature. EPA will continue to track issuing certificates and confirmatory testing but will also track new reporting metrics to capture compliance activities.||This Priority Goal advances the Strategic Plan objective to address climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the strategic measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from light duty vehicles and is a continuation of the FY 2012/2013 Priority Goal.  The FY 2012/2013 Priority Goal focused on the implementation of the first light-duty vehicle standards (Model Years (MY) 2012-2016) and heavy-duty standards (MY 2014-2018) to address greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) from transportation activities, which accounted for 27% of U.S. GHG emissions in 2010, with the largest source being from passenger cars, light-duty trucks and freight trucks.  The National Academy of Sciences (NAS) report, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change,” indicates that climate change is associated with increased flooding, prolonged drought, more severe heat waves, more frequent wildfires, and changes in wetland, forest, and grassland habitats. These events result in substantial economic consequences through the contamination of drinking water resources, impaired air and water quality and reduced capacity of ecosystems to provide the services to society that we depend upon. It is important to continue this APG because both the light-duty (MY 2012-2016) and heavy-duty vehicle rules are in the early stages of implementation, and the real benefits of these rules will not be realized until later years. For light-duty rules, the implementation for vehicles started in 2012, and will ramp up each year until 2025. For the heavy-duty rule, EPA is in the early credit earning phase, and will start in 2014/2015 to implement the first standards and assess compliance for the 2014 model year. The next phase includes incorporating the GHG standards in the light-duty vehicle rule for model years 2017-2025 (finalized in August 2012) and transitioning from the voluntary early credit earning phase (i.e., credit banking/trading, off-cycle credits, air-conditioning improvement credits) of the heavy-duty rule to the implementation phase of the 2014 model year standards."
