"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"National Aeronautics and Space Administration",26,NASA,"Expand the space frontier.",3343,3345,"Fully utilize ISS.","Conduct research on the International Space Station (ISS) to enable future space exploration, facilitate a commercial space economy, and advance the fundamental biological and physical sciences for the benefit of humanity.  ","NASA’s contribution to society starts with scientific and technological achievement, but extends much further. We are using our resources to spur exploration as well as the new and robust commercial space market. The continued operation of the ISS is critical to achieving NASA’s and the Nation’s goals in science, technology, and human spaceflight. The ISS is the world’s only orbiting, microgravity research and development (R&D) laboratory where researchers may perform multidisciplinary research and technology development to prepare for our exploration of the solar system. Results of research projects will continue to yield benefits in areas such as human health, telemedicine, physical science, Earth observations, space science, and education programs that inspire future scientists, engineers, and space explorers. The Center for Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS), is the sole manager of the ISS National Laboratory, which is a portion of the ISS, and is working to maximize use of the ISS for research in space. The Administration’s decision to extend ISS operations until at least 2024 will allow us to maximize its potential and maintain American leadership in space.  The ISS is proving to be a catalyst for the growing commercial space enterprise, as well as a critical springboard for our future space exploration goals. NASA is buying hundreds of millions of dollars of cargo flights from new commercial launch services providers. With the collaboration of five space agencies, 15 nations, and private companies, the ISS is a model for cooperation on future human space exploration missions beyond low Earth orbit.  ","Human Exploration Operations Mission Directorate","NASA, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, has determined that performance toward this strategic objective is making noteworthy progress.  Through the Strategic Review and NASA’s other performance management processes, NASA reviews recent accomplishments and near-term plans for the Agency’s strategic objectives and programs. The International Space Station (ISS) Program, Human Research Program, and Human Space Flight Operations Program fall under Strategic Objective 1.2. The ISS is the cornerstone of human exploration and operations, and NASA has made significant progress towards greater research utilization. Commercial companies are also successfully flying payloads. A significant recent accomplishment was U.S. Astronaut Scott Kelly and Russian Cosmonaut Mikhail Kornienko starting a one-year mission on the ISS, which is twice as long as typical U.S. missions. The one-year crew mission is the latest step in the ISS’ role as a platform for preparing humanity for exploration into deep space. These investigations are expected to yield beneficial knowledge on the medical, psychological, and biomedical challenges faced by astronauts during long-duration spaceflight.  Our critical next steps include maintaining the ISS as a safe and functional on-orbit platform, and continuing commercial and International Partner cargo missions to resupply the ISS. NASA will continue to expand the ISS on-orbit research program, including continuing to increase utilization of internal and external research facilities. In FY 2016, NASA will complete the U.S.-Russian joint one-year human health and performance research project and complete the data collection for the Identical Twins Study. Specific performance measures for the next two years can be found in NASA’s FY 2016 and FY 2017 Annual Performance Plans.  The Strategic Review also addresses long-term strategic outcomes, alignment, and key management challenges for each strategic objective, as well as across NASA’s portfolio of activities. In 10 years, NASA expects to advance benefits to humanity through research, enable a commercial demand-driven market in low Earth orbit; enable long-duration human spaceflight beyond low Earth orbit; and provide a basis for international exploration partnerships. However, NASA experienced resupply setbacks recently that may impact NASA’s Agency Priority Goal for research and utilization of the ISS in the near term. One major challenge for NASA is obtaining a full International Partner agreement for joint operations of the ISS until 2024. Additionally, leveraging the ISS to enable commercialization of low Earth orbit across broad sectors of the U.S. economy is both a challenge and an opportunity for the Agency.  For more information, please see http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/main/index.html.  Highlighted achievements during FY 2015 are detailed in the FY 2015 Agency Financial Report. Additional details on the FY 2015 performance for supporting Performance Goals and Annual Performance Indicators are provided in NASA’s FY 2015 Annual Performance Report. Information on the strategies for achieving this strategic objective can be found in the 2014 NASA Strategic Plan.","General Science, Space, and Technology",1248,"FY14-15 : Increase utilization of the International Space Station’s internal and external research facilities.","The continued operation of the International Space Station (ISS) is critical to achieving NASA’s and the Nation’s goals in science, technology, and human spaceflight. The ISS is a world-renowned research and development laboratory performing multidisciplinary research in science and technology benefiting humanity and enabling exploration of the universe. The ISS is also proving to be a catalyst to the growing commercial space enterprise, and is a critical springboard for our future space exploration goals. NASA’s goal is to increase utilization of the ISS to conduct scientific research; for exploration related technology development; and to foster commercial investment in space.  As an operational and multi-disciplinary research laboratory, with research coming from a wide variety of sources, it is important to characterize how the laboratory is being used and progress toward maximizing utilization of the laboratory.    "
