"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Energy",19,DOE,"Science and Energy",5182,5222,"Scientific Discoveries","Deliver the scientific discoveries and major scientific tools that transform our understanding of nature and strengthen the connection between advances in fundamental science and technology innovation","The Department of Energy manages a portfolio of basic research that spans exploring the origins of the cosmos to addressing emerging challenges in energy, environment, and national security. The scale and complexity of this research portfolio provide a competitive advantage to the nation as multidisciplinary teams of scientists, using some of the most advanced scientific instruments in the world, are able to respond quickly to national priorities and evolving opportunities at the frontiers of science.",Science,"Last year, agencies were required to review progress made toward strategic objectives using the agency Strategic Plan, and release summary results on Performance.gov in February 2015. The agency’s strategic review considers performance goals and other evidence, as well as challenges, risks, and external factors that may have affected the outcomes. OMB works with agencies to determine which strategic objectives require focused improvement or noteworthy progress relative to other strategic objectives. Because the Department of Energy released their strategic plan late in 2014, the Department did not complete a strategic review in 2014, but is expected to conduct the review in the future.","Energy||General Science, Space, and Technology",5022,"FY14-15 : Support and conduct basic research to deliver scientific breakthroughs and extend our knowledge of the natural world by capitalizing on the capabilities available at the national laboratories, and through partnerships with universities and industry.","The Office of Science (SC) mission is to deliver the scientific discoveries and major scientific tools that transform our understanding of nature and advance the energy, economic, and national security of the United States. The Office of Science accomplishes its mission and advances national goals by: Supporting a balanced research portfolio that invests in discovery science—research that probes some of the most fundamental questions in high energy, nuclear, and plasma physics; materials and chemistry; biological systems and earth system components; and mathematics.  The Office of Science supports about 24,000 investigators at over 300 U.S. academic institutions and at all of the DOE laboratories. Providing the Nation’s researchers with over 30 state-of-the-art national scientific user facilities, the most advanced tools of modern science, enabling the U.S. to remain at the forefront of science, technology, and innovation. The Office of Science also supports targeted research and development (R&D), to determine the technical feasibility and design options for future facilities and facility upgrades to deliver desired capabilities and maximize scientific potential.  Nearly 27,000 researchers from universities, national laboratories, industry, and international partners are expected to use the Office of Science scientific user facilities by FY 2015."
