"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Education",18,ED,"U.S. Department of Education Capacity",504,637,"Effective Workforce","Continue to build a skilled, diverse, and engaged workforce within the Department. ",,"Office of Management","The Department’s staffing gaps have been successfully reduced and continue to maintain a stable, minimum level of 4–5 percent, which is well below the FY 2015 target level of 15 percent. The Department also continues to reduce hiring lead times and completed approximately 68 percent of hiring actions within 90 days from the date the action was received to the tentative job offer. In FY 2015, the Department opened a new career center to assist employees in reaching their career development goals and successfully developed, marketed and deployed a boot-camp style supervisory training course for supervisors and managers. This mandatory three-day Supervisor Essentials course is facilitated by Department subject matter experts and provides new and existing supervisors with the essential tools in a participatory environment that encourages students to develop cross-component networks to share best practices. Additionally, the Department received full OPM certification for its Senior Executive Service performance management program for the first time in eight years.  The Department’s strategic goals are vast: supporting postsecondary education, CTE, adult education, elementary and secondary education, early learning, equity, and continuous improvement of the education system. To achieve its objectives, the Department’s workforce must have the right skills and be led by skilled and engaging supervisors and managers. The Department is enhancing employee productivity by aligning priorities and goals at every level in the organization with the Department’s strategic objectives. The Department has achieved consistent, incremental progress in Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey (FEVS) results. Since 2010, the Department has improved scores in the Employee Engagement Index of the FEVS from 62.6 percent to 68 percent in 2015. In FY 2015, the Department implemented a successful engagement strategy that resulted in 50 percent of subcomponents increasing their employee engagement scores between 1 and 12 percent, and 72 percent of subcomponents achieving employee engagement scores above the governmentwide average.  The Office of Human Resources (OHR) worked with all Departmental offices to prioritize the revision and updating of key human capital policies, conducted extensive outreach efforts to hiring managers, and expanded supervisory and managerial training and development opportunities.  Human capital management plays a critical role in the Department’s ability to fulfill its mission. By effectively planning for workforce changes, addressing skill gaps, and providing timely guidance and hands-on options for recruitment, staffing, and retention, the Department can provide consistent oversight, execution, and support for its programs.","Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services",,,
