"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Education",18,ED,"U.S. Department of Education Capacity",504,640,"Productivity and Performance Management","Improve workforce productivity through information technology enhancements, telework expansion efforts, more effective process performance management systems, and state-of-the-art leadership and knowledge management practices.",,"Office of the Chief Information Officer; Office of Management","The Department takes pride in fostering a culture where managers and employees have the information and technology to perform their jobs well even when they are not physically onsite. The Department instituted tools and techniques for managers and employees to make performance goal setting, tracking, and feedback a regular work practice throughout the year. Additionally, some supervisors used a best practice performance feedback worksheet with questions tied to FEVS results which enhanced proactive communication and built trust within work teams. The Department also developed a revised telework training course, How to Make Telework Really Work. Training sessions incorporated discussion on changes to the Department’s updated telework policy and provided a forum for managers and employees to ask questions about telework and any concerns regarding space reduction and modernization plans. The Department saw an increase in the use of telework as a viable and effective tool that enabled employees to meet professional responsibilities while also offering a mechanism to reduce work/life stress.  To improve efficiencies and reduce costs associated with the Grant Award Notification process, the Department issued a Grant Bulletin establishing policy and guidance to support e-signature for formula grants.  In FY 2015, the Department implemented the second year of the ED Space Modernization Initiative, finalized space designs for two major subcomponents, and worked with the General Services Administration (GSA) to develop an aggressive construction schedule for the first major phase of the initiative in the Department’s headquarters building. The Department identified business requirements, conducted market research with a broad group of stakeholders, and completed procurement for an automated hoteling and conference room reservation system. Department staff in San Francisco and Chicago were engaged in the process of redefining requirements for new space when current leases expire and worked with GSA to find federally owned space in San Francisco to avoid a large rent increase in 2014; the resulting solution will save the Department $15 million in avoided rent and construction costs in 2017–18. The Department worked closely with its labor union partners to address space challenges in Washington, DC and regional office locations.","Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services",,,
