"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Health and Human Services",9,HHS,"Strengthen Health Care",529,671,"Emphasize primary and preventive care linked with community prevention services","Emphasize primary and preventive care linked with community prevention services","The Affordable Care Act is expanding insurance coverage for Americans, supporting improvements in primary care, and makings new investments in community-based prevention. As part of this effort, HHS is focusing on creating key linkages between health care and effective community prevention services that support healthy living and disease management.","Office of the Secretary","Please note that this section summarizes the result of the FY 2014 HHS Strategic Review process, limiting the scope of content to that available prior to spring of 2015.  Due to this constraint, the following may not be the most current information available.  Conclusions:      Progressing  Analysis:  Integrating primary health care services and public health efforts, including linking to community prevention services, can promote efficiency, positively affect individual well-being, and improve population health.  The Affordable Care Act provides a unique opportunity to maximize the value of America’s health investment by integrating public health approaches and health care service delivery.  For example, as a result of delivery system reform efforts, healthcare providers are looking beyond traditional clinical services to address other determinants that impact individuals’ health and well-being, healthcare quality and cost.  Rather than reinventing the wheel, providers and payers have begun looking to community-based social services for their expertise in supporting seniors and people with disabilities.  Through a collaborative learning experience community-based organizations developed bundled “packages” that integrated care providers can purchase to reduce unnecessary hospital and nursing facility admissions and support community living.  To date, 15 contracts have been completed with integrated care entities (such as health plans, physician practices and health systems) to provide care transitions, evidence-based programs, and other services.  In 2014, the Million Hearts® Learning Collaborative assisted state and local health agencies in implementing evidence-based strategies to identify, control and improve blood pressure.  In the first year, 10 states implemented high-impact strategies including standardization of hypertension screenings, use of electronic health records, and development of disease self-management tools.  During this rapid scale-up of services, which included over 150 partners, 89,187 individuals were reached.    The Title X Program has greatly contributed to preventive services by decreasing unintended pregnancy among women and families, as well as significantly reducing unintended pregnancy rates among teens and young adults.  According to the most recent data (CY 2013), of the more than 4.5 million individuals served in Title X clinics, approximately 18 percent were under 20 years of age and more than 2.31 million (51 percent) were in their 20’s.  In addition, Title X centers have also made an impact by screening for chlamydia infection to reduce infertility.  Title X centers screened a total of 1,181,534 clients under the age of 25 for Chlamydia.  The review identified some potential challenges such as the roll-out of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans especially as it relates to sodium reduction.  Access to timely and reliable data within a complex and fluid health care environment is a significant challenge because there are statutory obligations to test and expand models that demonstrate positive results.  If adequate and timely data necessary to conduct evaluation are not available, then no determination about the success of a model can ultimately be made.  In addition, as a greater number of individuals become insured through private plans, Title X providers have to contract with private health plans, a challenge for small providers.  These providers are struggling to ensure high quality care while adapting to new health care technologies.  HHS will continue to analyze the implications of the Affordable Care Act on federally funded public health programs.  It will continue to build capacity and infrastructure of community based human service organizations so they can partner and obtain better outcomes in cooperation with health providers.  ",Health,372,"FY14-15 : Reduce combustible tobacco use","Smoking and second hand smoke is the leading preventable cause of death in the United States, killing more than an estimated 480,000 people in the U.S. each year.  For every smoker who dies from a smoking-attributable disease, another 30 live with a serious smoking-related disease.  Smoking costs the U.S. more than $300 billion a year, including nearly $170 billion in direct medical costs, and more than $156 billion in lost productivity.  An estimated 58 million nonsmoking Americans are exposed to secondhand smoke, which causes more than 41,000 deaths in non-smoking adults each year .  While smoking among U.S. adults is down significantly from a decade ago, the decline in adult smoking rates has slowed, concurrent with reductions in state investments in tobacco control program.  Fortunately, people who stop smoking greatly reduce their risk for disease and premature death. Smoking cessation lowers the risk for lung and other types of cancer; it reduces the risk for coronary heart disease, stroke, and peripheral vascular disease.  .  In 2010, HHS issued Ending the Epidemic – A Tobacco Control Strategic Action Plan, outlining a set of comprehensive actions framed around four key Healthy People 2020 tobacco control objectives: 1) reduce tobacco use 2) reduce the initiation of tobacco use 3) increase successful cessation attempts by smokers 4) reduce the proportion of nonsmokers exposed to secondhand smoke. The National Prevention Strategy, released in 2011, includes tobacco control as one of seven priorities across the U.S. Government. In 2012, cigarette and smokeless tobacco companies spent more than $9.6 billion, more than $1 million per hour that year, on advertising and promotional expenses in the United States to attract new users, retain current users, increase consumption, and generate favorable attitudes toward smoking.  There is also a growing concern regarding new tobacco products that are being marketed to smokers as alternatives for use in smoke-free environments.  Dual use of cigarettes and other tobacco products can maintain tobacco addiction and use among smokers who might otherwise quit.  The marketing of purported reduced-risk products may increase overall tobacco use. Consumer mistaken perceptions of the “safety” of these products may pose a continuing obstacle for tobacco control. States continue to reduce funding for comprehensive tobacco control. Research has shown that progress to prevent initiation and promote cessation in comprehensive programs is reversed when funding is no longer sustained.  HHS engages with multiple stakeholders in implementing tobacco control activities, which include: Congress, the public, minority communities, groups affected by tobacco-related health disparities, state and local tobacco control officials, tobacco control and public health non-governmental organizations, the scientific & research community, and businesses. The U.S. Congress has provided direction and support for tobacco control activities in the following legislative actions: • The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act • The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) • The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (FSPTCA) • The Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (CHIPRA) HHS oversees tobacco control and prevention committees covered by the Federal Advisory Committee Act. All meetings of these committees are open to the public and offer opportunities for stakeholder feedback.    "
