"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Health and Human Services",9,HHS,"Strengthen Health Care",529,675,"Improve health care and population health through meaningful use of health information technology","Improve health care and population health through meaningful use of health information technology","At the heart of HHS’s strategy to strengthen and modernize the healthcare system is the use of data to improve healthcare quality, reduce unnecessary healthcare costs, decrease paperwork, expand access to affordable care, improve population health, and support reformed payment structures. To accomplish this, HHS is encouraging widespread adoption and meaningful use of health information technology through incentives, grants, and technical assistance.","Office of the Secretary","Please note that this section summarizes the result of the FY 2014 HHS Strategic Review process, limiting the scope of content to that available prior to spring of 2015.  Due to this constraint, the following may not be the most current information available.  Conclusion:        Progressing  Analysis:      HHS has made progress improving health care and population health through meaningful use of health IT since the release of the HHS Strategic Plan.  As of March 2015 more than 447,000 health care providers have received an incentive payment from the Medicare and Medicaid Electronic Health Records (EHR) incentive Programs.  Seventy-six percent of hospitals have adopted a basic EHR system, and 48 percent of office-based physicians have adopted a basic EHR system.  This progress has laid a strong base for health IT adoption and created a growing demand for its interoperability that not only supports the care continuum, but also supports health generally.  Electronic health information is not yet sufficiently standardized to allow seamless interoperability, as it is still inconsistently expressed through technical and medical vocabulary, structure, and format, thereby limiting the potential uses of the information to improve health and care.  Additionally, health IT adoption remains a lower priority among providers that are not eligible for incentive payments under the Medicare and Medicaid EHR Incentive Programs, such as long-term care, post-acute care, and behavioral health settings.  Effective communication and information sharing across all health care providers is essential for improving care quality and community health.   Issues identified during the review include observations that costs and workload are expected to increase going forward because of ever-growing and more complex requirements for health information technology.  In addition, how the Electronic Health Records incentives sunset could potentially impact participation by new providers in EHR needs to be better understood.  Finally, new models for collecting patient information could help to reduce data collection time, increase uniformity, and garner provider enthusiasm.  HHS plans to pivot the focus of the review in upcoming years to assess progress on interoperable electronic health information exchange in support of the HHS Delivery System Reform initiative.  It will use available regulatory vehicles such as inpatient prospective payment system rule to improve upon data collection that supports meaningful use of electronic health information.  HHS will assess the feasibility of a Public Health Community Platform to support state and local health departments.  In addition, HHS will implement the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (MACRA), particularly Title 1, to help providers use data and certified health IT so they can successfully participate in alternative payment models.","Health||General Science, Space, and Technology",472,"FY14-15 : Improve health care through meaningful use of health information technology.","At the heart of HHS’s strategy to strengthen and modernize healthcare is the use of data to improve healthcare quality, reduce unnecessary healthcare costs, decrease paperwork, expand access to affordable care, improve population health, and support reformed payment structures. The nation’s health information technology infrastructure enables the flow of information to power these critical efforts— that can help facilitate the types of fundamental changes in access and healthcare delivery proposed in the Affordable Care Act. HHS is taking a leading role in realizing health information technology’s potential benefits. The Recovery Act provided an unprecedented investment in health information technology to propel a range of initiatives, including regulations on the meaningful use of health information technology and standards as well as the funding of Health IT Regional Extension Centers, State Health Information Exchanges, and other programs. This Priority Goal is to increase the number of eligible providers in these important programs who adopt/meaningfully use electronic health records (EHRs), since it is believed that the increased use of EHRs will improve coordination across providers and settings, improve health care delivery, improve quality of care and reduce medical errors. The Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT within the Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Services is the designated lead for this priority goal in close partnership with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). A key step in this strategy is to provide incentive payments to eligible providers serving Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries who adopt and meaningfully use certified EHR technology. Detailed reports showing the provider types and EHR Incentive Programs breakouts are available on the CMS website at http://www.cms.gov/EHRIncentivePrograms/56_DataAndReports.asp"
