"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Health and Human Services",9,HHS,"Advance the Health, Safety, and Well-Being of the American People",531,684,"Promote prevention and wellness across the lifespan",,"HHS works to promote prevention and wellness across its programs and agencies.  As the Nation's principal prevention agency, CDC has primary responsibility for addressing chronic diseases through population and community health activities; working to support State, local, and tribal public health agencies; promoting health through education; and conducting outreach to vulnerable populations. Over the next several years, HHS's focus will be on creating environments that promote healthy behaviors to address the chronic diseases and health conditions that result in the most deaths, disability, and costs.","Office of the Secretary","Please note that this section summarizes the result of the FY 2014 HHS Strategic Review process, limiting the scope of content to that available prior to spring of 2015.  Due to this constraint, the following may not be the most current information available.  Conclusion:        Progressing  Analysis:  Progress has occurred in this objective in the areas of smoking rates, physical activity, and the rate of rise of obesity.  HHS is working to help programs incorporate evidence-based and evidence-informed models into their settings, using an expanded body of scientific literature.  There are challenges posed by infectious threats (e.g. Ebola, MERS), electronic nicotine delivery systems, prescription opioid abuse, and legalization of marijuana in more states.  HHS also faces a changing communication landscape which requires us to modernize our approach to public education.  To achieve positive results HHS needs to overcome some obstacles.  Although there is a growing body of research on evidence-based prevention models, programs may need additional resources, training and technical assistance to incorporate evidence-based or evidence informed practices into their settings.  Local adaptations to existing programs may be necessary, but also may influence the effectiveness of programs in unknown ways.  It is difficult to balance the need for scientific rigor and the constantly expanding body of published scientific literature, with the public’s demand for rapid and up-to-date reviews of the literature.   The introduction of emerging products, such as electronic nicotine delivery systems, and shifting patterns of tobacco use are presenting challenges to tobacco prevention and control.  The Department has modified its surveillance systems to better capture shifting patterns of tobacco use among both youth and adults.  While the overall tobacco use rate in the US has been decreasing, rates for individuals with behavioral health disorders, who comprise approximately 25 percent of the US population, have not decreased.  A major effort for the Department is the continuation of the Agency Priority Goal focused on combustible tobacco consumption with a focus on reducing youth smoking and e-cigarettes.  The Department plans to conduct applied research on the health effects and patterns of use of emerging tobacco products to inform the American public as well as decision makers.  A State Policy Academy for Tobacco Control in Behavioral Health will provide an opportunity for behavioral health leadership teams in five states to build a collaborative action planning process to address the high rate of tobacco use by persons with behavioral health disorders.  In collaboration with the White House Conference on Aging, the Go4Life Month is launching in September 2015.  Activities nationwide will encourage older adults to include exercise and physical activity as part of their daily routine.  Healthfinder.gov has established a partnership with CVS Health in 2015 that could increase the uptake of clinical preventive services and increase the continuity of prevention care.  CVS is encouraging its customers to get preventive services their Minute Clinic offers and to get other recommended preventive services at their primary care provider.","Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services||Health||Community and Regional Development",372,"FY14-15 : Reduce combustible tobacco use","Smoking and second hand smoke is the leading preventable cause of death in the United States, killing more than an estimated 480,000 people in the U.S. each year.  For every smoker who dies from a smoking-attributable disease, another 30 live with a serious smoking-related disease.  Smoking costs the U.S. more than $300 billion a year, including nearly $170 billion in direct medical costs, and more than $156 billion in lost productivity.  An estimated 58 million nonsmoking Americans are exposed to secondhand smoke, which causes more than 41,000 deaths in non-smoking adults each year .  While smoking among U.S. adults is down significantly from a decade ago, the decline in adult smoking rates has slowed, concurrent with reductions in state investments in tobacco control program.  Fortunately, people who stop smoking greatly reduce their risk for disease and premature death. Smoking cessation lowers the risk for lung and other types of cancer; it reduces the risk for coronary heart disease, stroke, and peripheral vascular disease.  .  In 2010, HHS issued Ending the Epidemic – A Tobacco Control Strategic Action Plan, outlining a set of comprehensive actions framed around four key Healthy People 2020 tobacco control objectives: 1) reduce tobacco use 2) reduce the initiation of tobacco use 3) increase successful cessation attempts by smokers 4) reduce the proportion of nonsmokers exposed to secondhand smoke. The National Prevention Strategy, released in 2011, includes tobacco control as one of seven priorities across the U.S. Government. In 2012, cigarette and smokeless tobacco companies spent more than $9.6 billion, more than $1 million per hour that year, on advertising and promotional expenses in the United States to attract new users, retain current users, increase consumption, and generate favorable attitudes toward smoking.  There is also a growing concern regarding new tobacco products that are being marketed to smokers as alternatives for use in smoke-free environments.  Dual use of cigarettes and other tobacco products can maintain tobacco addiction and use among smokers who might otherwise quit.  The marketing of purported reduced-risk products may increase overall tobacco use. Consumer mistaken perceptions of the “safety” of these products may pose a continuing obstacle for tobacco control. States continue to reduce funding for comprehensive tobacco control. Research has shown that progress to prevent initiation and promote cessation in comprehensive programs is reversed when funding is no longer sustained.  HHS engages with multiple stakeholders in implementing tobacco control activities, which include: Congress, the public, minority communities, groups affected by tobacco-related health disparities, state and local tobacco control officials, tobacco control and public health non-governmental organizations, the scientific & research community, and businesses. The U.S. Congress has provided direction and support for tobacco control activities in the following legislative actions: • The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act • The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) • The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (FSPTCA) • The Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (CHIPRA) HHS oversees tobacco control and prevention committees covered by the Federal Advisory Committee Act. All meetings of these committees are open to the public and offer opportunities for stakeholder feedback.    "
