"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Agriculture",5,USDA,"Ensure Our National Forests and Private Working Lands are Conserved, Restored, and Made More Resilient to Climate Change, While Enhancing Our Water Resources",560,832,"Improve the Health of the Nation's Forests, Grasslands, and Working Lands by Managing our Natural Resources","Improve the Health of the Nation's Forests, Grasslands, and Working Lands by Managing our Natural Resources","Restoring watershed and forest health is central to USDA’s efforts in our national forests and grasslands.  USDA will develop and implement National Forest System land management plans and projects to restore and sustain ecosystem function.  This includes improving the health of fire-adapted or fire-impaired ecosystems; addressing the spread of insects and diseases that kill trees; restoring wildlife habitat; improving or decommissioning roads; replacing and improving culverts; and rehabilitating streams and wetlands.  On agricultural and grazing lands, USDA will assist private landowners and managers with sustainable land management through conservation programs.  USDA provides technical and financial assistance to enable landowners to develop conservation plans and implement effective conservation practices.  These efforts restore vegetative cover; implement sustainable agricultural production levels on erosive lands; and improve soil productivity through soil health management.  USDA is working to protect forest and agricultural land from conversion to urban and other developed land use through conservation easements and strategic land acquisition.  Beyond national forests and agricultural lands, USDA also invests in urban and community forestry programs to improve urban forests and greenspaces.  USDA will work with partners to identify the most environmentally and socially important landscapes, create strategies to protect natural resources, and involve communities in this work.  USDA will also prioritize and accelerate research that delivers tools for more effective conservation.",,"The Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) helped farmers and ranchers apply conservation practices to almost 9 million acres of cropland to improve soil health and almost 26 million acres of grazing land and forest land to protect and improve the resource base. In addition, the Farm Service Angency's (FSA) Conservation Reserve Program’s (CRP) which helps to reduce nitrogen, phosphorus and sediment pollution by more than 85 percent annually on all lands enrolled achieved over 2 million acres in wetland practice enrollment in FY 2015. CRP is protecting more than 170,000 stream miles with riparian forest and grass buffers, enough to go around the world 7 times. Since 1985, the program has sequestered an annual average of 49 million tons of greenhouse gases, equal to taking 9 million cars off the road; prevented 9 billion tons of soil from erosion, enough to fill 600 million dump trucks; and reduced nitrogen and phosphorous runoff by 95 and 85 percent,",Agriculture,,,
