"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Agriculture",5,USDA,"Ensure Our National Forests and Private Working Lands are Conserved, Restored, and Made More Resilient to Climate Change, While Enhancing Our Water Resources",560,834,"Reduce Risk of Catastrophic Wildfire","Reduce Risk of Catastrophic Wildfire","Many forests, rangelands, and grasslands are dependent on fire for ecological health. Unfortunately, fires that burn too hot and too large are becoming more prevalent due to climate change, development in fire-prone areas, and other factors.  These catastrophic fires harm the environment and threaten communities.  To reduce the risk of catastrophic fire, USDA works with the Department of the Interior, other Federal agencies, Tribal and State governments and local law enforcement and emergency preparedness staff on prevention, preparedness, and response.  USDA and its partners will work with communities to assess risks, and develop and implement community plans to improve capability to respond to local wildfires.  USDA will also collaborate with public and private forest and rangeland owners to develop and implement hazardous fuels reduction and ecosystem restoration projects.  In the national forests and grasslands, land management plans will be designed to restore degraded ecosystems and to allow fire to play a healthy role in fire dependent ecosystems.  This will reduce fuel loads, improve wildlife habitat, and sustain healthy ecosystems.",,"ACCOMPLISHMENTS: In FY 2015, the Hazardous Fuels program treated more than 2.3 million acres on National Forest System (NFS) and adjacent lands both inside and outside the wildland-urban interface (WUI). The Forest Service targeted the highest priority WUI acres for treatment, focusing on the communities that have implemented Community Wildfire Protection Plans.  CHALLENGES: The Forest Service is committed to restoring the resilience and diversity of fire-adapted ecosystems on the landscape, consistent with public safety needs. Wildfires continue to be larger and more difficult to suppress due to the effects of a changing climate, persistent drought and hazardous fuel conditions, and the increased size and complexity of housing developments adjacent to WUI.","Natural Resources and Environment",,,
