"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Agriculture",5,USDA,"Ensure that All of America's Children Have Access to Safe, Nutritious, and Balanced Meals",562,838,"Improve Access to Nutritious Food","Improve Access to Nutritious Food",".  USDA’s domestic nutrition assistance programs serve one in four Americans annually. The Department is committed to making benefits available to every eligible person who wishes to participate in the major nutrition assistance programs, including the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the Child Nutrition Programs, and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC).  While the Department’s ultimate objective is for economic opportunities to make nutrition assistance unnecessary for as many families as possible, we will ensure that these vital programs remain ready to serve all eligible people who need them.  While the rate of SNAP participation among eligible people has returned to the coverage levels of the 1990s, a substantial portion of those eligible for SNAP are not participating. USDA will continue its efforts to ensure that every eligible person is aware of the program’s benefits so that they can make an informed choice whether to participate or not.  USDA also intends to ensure effective and easy access to the Child Nutrition Programs for eligible children who need them. The National School Lunch Program is available in most schools. Schools can receive cash subsidies and donated commodities from the Department for each meal they serve. In return, those schools must serve lunches that meet Federal requirements and offer free or reduced-price lunches to eligible children.  Promoting access to nutrition assistance goes hand-in-hand with managing these programs in a manner that ensures public confidence and maximizes the impact of Federal dollars. Strong management ensures that those most in need of nutrition assistance receive it. It also ensures that nutrition assistance programs leverage opportunities to positively impact the local economy in the communities they serve. Finally, it ensures that resources are not wasted by error or abuse. USDA uses all available opportunities, including new communication and eGovernment technologies, to serve customers, work with partners, and administer programs as effectively as possible.",,"ACHIEVEMENTS:  In FY 2015, USDA continued to improve the quality of Americans’ diets through research-based nutrition enhancements to the Nation’s food supply and better knowledge and education to promote healthier food choices. In FY 2015, USDA pursued national policies and programs to ensure that everyone has access to a healthy diet regardless of income, and that information is available to support and encourage good nutrition choices.  CHALLENGES:  The Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) is still reaching only a fraction of the children in need of nutrition assistance when school is out.  Challenges include outreach to eligible children, identifying viable site sponsors and transportation of food.  ","Health||Income Security",,,
