"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Agriculture",5,USDA,"Ensure Our National Forests and Private Working Lands are Conserved, Restored, and Made More Resilient to Climate Change, While Enhancing Our Water Resources",560,915,"Lead Efforts to Mitigate and Adapt to Climate Change, Drought, and Extreme Weather in Agriculture and Forestry","Lead Efforts to Mitigate and Adapt to Climate Change, Drought, and Extreme Weather in Agriculture and Forestry","USDA will work through its natural resource conservation and energy programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and sequester carbon, while leading adaptation efforts. This supports the Administration’s goal to reduce U.S. greenhouse gas emissions to 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020.  USDA will encourage voluntary practices to reduce net greenhouse gas emissions.  These include conservation tillage; manure and nutrient management; fertilizer efficiency; planting trees; minimizing deforestation; increasing energy efficiency in agriculture and rural development; and developing renewable sources of energy.  Forest restoration, along with conservation easements and land acquisition, will help maintain forests as a net carbon sink.  The Department will assist rural communities, producers, resource managers, and community planners to develop and implement climate adaptation strategies.  Impacts that are already appearing include changing water flow, availability, and quality; fire risk; and extreme weather events. USDA will monitor impacts and help implement adaptations (e.g., measuring changes in water flow and then installing stream buffers or upgrading culverts to handle increased water overflow).  The Department conducts and invests in research to inform climate change policy and mitigation and adaptation strategies, tools and technologies.  USDA will evaluate the effects of conservation actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to identify effective and economic approaches.  USDA is supporting plant variety and animal breed development that maximize carbon sequestration and can adapt to climate change.  Work is also underway to develop methods and technical guidelines to measure and model the effects of climate change on ecosystem services and to conduct greenhouse gas inventories of the urban forest and agriculture sector.  The Department and its partners will make research outcomes widely available through outreach and extension networks.",,"ACHIEVEMENTS: The national forests and grasslands have made significant progress in their implementation of the Forest Service’s Climate Change Performance Scorecard, with 89 percent of national forests and grasslands in compliance with a climate change adaptation and mitigation strategy in FY 2015. In addition, in FY 2015, USDA announced the Building Blocks for Climate Smart Agriculture and Forestry, a plan to help farmers, ranchers, and forest land owners respond to climate change.    CHALLENGES:  As USDA continues to build compliance with the scorecard dimensions/actions, maintaining resilient national forests and grasslands may become more challenging in the future as climate change effects become more pronounced.  ","Natural Resources and Environment",,,
