"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Small Business Administration",28,SBA,"Growing businesses and creating jobs",596,921,"Fuel high-growth small businesses and start-ups to drive innovation","Fuel high-growth entrepreneurship, innovation and job creation by providing the tools small businesses need to start and grow their businesses.","High-growth businesses create almost all of the net new jobs in the economy today.  Through longer-term “patient” capital, growth accelerators and regional innovation clusters, federal research and development (R&D) grants, and export assistance, the SBA plays a critical role in the ongoing success of high-growth small businesses.  These high-growth investments provide opportunities for small businesses to create jobs and sustain the cycle of American entrepreneurship and innovation.","Office of Investments and Innovation (OII)","In FY 2015, the SBA met its goal of committing $2.5 billion in debenture funds to SBICs.  The Agency licensed 25 new SBIC funds with an average licensing time of 8.4 months and put in place a new tracking system, identifying processing times for each stage of review.  This new system has allowed the program to quantify and qualify its performance with regards to customer service and to identify areas needed for improvement.  To reduce licensing times, the SBA is reducing delays within its control and communicating with applicants clearly and promptly regarding actions required on their part.  In addition, the SBA continued development of an SBIC web-based system to modernize the business model, encourage potential applicants, streamline processes, and reduce redundancy or duplicative efforts.  SBIR is planning to build its solicitation portal and upgrade its database to support additional data collection for performance analysis.  The SBIR and STTR programs’ current authorization expires at the end of FY 2017.  The Agency requests the reauthorization for both programs, often referred to as America’s Seed Fund, be extended as they support the growth of small, high-tech businesses.  The programs have been responsible for establishing thousands of advanced technologies and providing the first funding to many now prominent large businesses.","Commerce and Housing Credit",,,
