"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Transportation",21,DOT,"Quality of Life in Communities",5302,985,"QUALITY OF LIFE: EXPAND ACCESS","Expand convenient, safe, and affordable transportation choices for all by emphasizing greater public engagement, fairness, equity, and accessibility in transportation investment plans, policy guidance, and programs.","The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) prohibits discrimination against persons with disabilities in all aspects of life, and applies to all entities, i.e., public or private regardless of funding source. Title II of the ADA applies to the entire operations of all stations in transit systems, airports facilities, intercity rail transportation systems, and roadway facilities including sidewalks and pedestrian crosswalks.  While many entities have developed ADA transition plans, implementation has been slowed by competing priorities for limited funds. We will provide guidance and assistance (and funding in a limited number of cases) to encourage ADA compliance in existing facilities.  Also, we will integrate environmental justice principles into all Department planning and programming, rulemaking, and policy formulation.",,"Although FHWA projected that 31 States would complete their Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) transition plan in FY 2015, a number of States unexpectedly confronted one or more of the following obstacles that resulted in a significant delay in completing their plan: seriously constrained resources, issues or delays with consultants, and changes in personnel (e.g., loss of ADA coordinator).  In response to these State-based challenges, FHWA developed a process involving a multidisciplinary working group of ADA subject matter experts and division office administrators to review transition plans that will ensure compliance with regulatory requirements and facilitate the  States’ completion of their plans.  The new process was implemented in the Fall 2015, with a guidance memo issued to the field that provided the purpose and background of the process and explained the operations of the working group and the responsibilities of a new ADA Transition Plan review team.  A detailed overview of the new process, along with FHWA’s expectations of the State DOTs for completing their transition plans, were outlined in national webinars held in October and December for both FHWA Division Offices and State DOTs.  FHWA will continue to provide States with any technical assistance or training that is needed to ensure they are submitting final draft ADA transition plans that meet the regulatory requirements, and, at the same time, focus on successful outcomes rather than process.     As of 2015, FTA has continued to exceed its target for key rail stations verified as accessible and fully compliant under ADA. Following the issuance of the Department’s ADA Final Rule on reasonable modification, FTA conducted a series of webinars to ensure that the transit industry was aware of the new requirements and prepared to implement them by the Rule’s effective date. FTA completed work on the ADA Circular during FY 2015, and published the full, 12-chapter document on October 5, 2015.  The Circular provides detailed guidance to transit agencies on how to comply with the provisions of the DOT ADA regulations.  The release of FTA’s ADA Circular represents a major milestone in assistance to the transit community. It thoroughly explains ADA requirements for public transit, providing real-life situations as examples of good practices for the transit industry to ensure accessible services for riders. The document does not amend or supersede the DOT ADA regulations; rather, it offers explanatory scenarios and sample templates, such as a rail station checklist for new construction and alterations.needed to ensure they are submitting final draft ADA transition plans that meet the regulatory requirements, and, at the same time, focus on successful outcomes rather than process.  ","Transportation||Community and Regional Development",,,
