"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"Department of Transportation",21,DOT,"Organizational Excellence",5331,990,"IMPROVE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT","Advance secure and innovative information systems and technology platforms that protect against cyber threats and support the efficient use of information and data for financial management.","We will provide secure, customer-focused information systems and technology platforms that support the innovative, effective, and efficient use of information and data for the management of all DOT business processes.  We will leverage new technologies and ensure contingency plans are in place for our employees to function as a mobile workforce in all situations. We will continue to emphasize the importance of improving our financial management practices by focusing on increased oversight and proper recording of undelivered orders, which are budget obligations that have not yet been fully liquidated by making a final payment.  With the large number and dollar value of DOT-funded grants and projects, identifying unused portions of this funding is constant work.  By recovering these unused funds, we can make additional monies available to be used for eligible, higher priority projects.",,"FY 2015 performance results met most, but not all, of DOT improper payment target rates. DOT’s target rates are more rigorous than statutory thresholds which define programs susceptible to significant improper payments to have an improper payment rate exceeding 1.5 percent and $10 million of program outlays or $100 million of program outlays regardless of the percentage.  In FY 2015, DOT’s OAs continued to enhance their payment processing guidance, update standard operating procedures, and reinforce controls during periodic training sessions with their internal and external grant management communities. These efforts resulted in fewer corrective actions compared with prior years.  DOT completed a department wide improper payment risk assessment of all programs in FY 2015. The risk assessment measures a number of factors including: payment processing controls; quality of internal and external monitoring controls; human capital; age and complexity of the programs; and, nature of program payments and recipients. In addition to meeting statutory requirements, the risk assessment is assisting DOT pinpoint control weaknesses and construct action plans to reduce the risk of improper payments.  The risk assessment identified three new funding activities susceptible to significant improper payments:    	FRA’s Operating Subsidy and Capital and Debt Service Grants to Amtrak; 	FTA’s PRIIA Projects for WMATA; and, 	MARAD’s Electronic Invoicing System—Ready Reserve Force—Ship Manager Payments.  FRA and FTA merged newly identified funding activities into existing programs tested for improper payments.  MARAD established a new improper payment program starting in FY 2015. ",Management,,,
