"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Associated Strategic Goal Header","Associated Strategic Goal ID","Strategic Objective ID","Strategic Objective Header","Strategic Objective Statement","Strategic Objective Overview","Strategic Objective Lead Office","Strategic Objective Progress Update","Strategic Objective Theme(s)","Strategic Objective Associated Agency Priority Goal ID","Associated Agency Priority Goal Header","Associated Agency Priority Goal Overview"
"General Services Administration",23,GSA,Savings,540,995,"Deliver contracting solutions to generate customer savings","GSA will effectively leverage the government’s buying power to reduce costs.","GSA will effectively leverage existing, and develop new, federal strategic sourcing initiatives to provide competitively priced solutions to drive savings in technology, real property and other acquisitions throughout the federal government. Through these solutions, GSA will be able to leverage governmentwide business volume for better pricing, and standardize contracting terms and conditions in order to reduce the cost of purchasing across government.                   Strategies:    	Continue to assess government purchasing and supply markets to develop federal strategic sourcing initiatives that provide our customers with services and equipment, at an excellent value, from suitable suppliers using standard solution pricing menus. 	Use standard solutions and pricing with qualified suppliers to make it easier for agencies to meet their acquisition needs with minimal administrative demands, and, in turn, allow agencies to focus their time and resources towards their core mission-critical operations. 	Promote the use of strategic sourcing solutions by our customers and work with our federal partners and industry to develop solutions for a broader array of products and services. 	Reduce the operating costs for providing supplies to customers, which in turn will lead to customer savings. 	Continue to use solutions such as Smartbuy, Networx Services and Reverse Auctions to provide customers with significant savings for information technology and telecommunications services and equipment. 	Continue to develop and refine real estate market analysis tools and leasing processes to offer our customers leased workspace, when needed, at an excellent value.      Key Performance Goals:    	Generate savings through Federal Strategic Sourcing Initiatives 	Reduce the Global Supply blended markup 	Procure lease space at below industry market rates 	Realize savings through Integrated Technology Service solutions      Contributing Programs:    	Assisted Acquisition 	Electronic Government 	General Supplies and Services 	Integrated Acquisition Environment 	Integrated Technology Services 	Rental of Space 	Travel, Motor Vehicle and Card Services","Federal Acquisition Service (FAS)","For this strategic objective, GSA manages four savings performance goals: Integrated Technology Service (ITS) cost savings, Federal Strategic Sourcing Initiatives (FSSI), Global Supply blended markup, and leases negotiated at or below market rates. GSA met its targets for three of the four performance goals for FY 2015.  Full success was realized for ITS cost savings, Global Supply blended markup, and for leases  negotiated at or below the market rate.  GSA achieved $129 million of its $144 million savings target for Federal Strategic Sourcing Initiatives.  GSA anticipates future growth in providing savings for the federal government and will begin reporting total savings for our federal acquisition services programs. Integrated Technology Service and Federal Strategic Sourcing Initiatives savings will be incorporated into our new performance indicator. For FY 2015, GSA acquisitions solutions provided over $5.1 billion in savings to the federal government.  To promote better acquisition decisions, GSA launched the Acquisition Gateway in September 30, 2014. The Acquisition Gateway provides agencies an interactive online portal that allows customers to access and compare best in class solutions to efficiently make cost effective purchasing decisions. It also provides a place to share best practices and learn from other acquisition professionals leading to better buying for the Federal customers  The Acquisition Gateway includes acquisition tools developed across government.  As of the end of FY 2015, 39 agencies have accessed the Acquisition Gateway in its first full year of operation.  Strategic Objective Next Steps. GSA will take the following actions in support of this strategic objective over the next two years:   	Continue to negotiate the lowest possible lease rates for its customer agencies    	Pursue opportunities to backfill or buy out vacant space leases 	Leverage information and existing data sources to negotiate better prices including analyzing spending patterns and share information such as prices paid 	Continue to consolidate financial, information, and human resources operations to reduce costs of our services to federal client agencies 	Work with the Category Management Leadership Council (CMLC) to introduce new strategic sourcing solutions to increase saving opportunities 	Increase adoption of industry and government agency best practices 	Increase consolidations of leased vehicles 	Transition to E-gov Travel Service 2 and increase the number of agencies deployed 	Increase the use of reverse auctions for non-complex commodities and simple services acquisitions 	Implement Enterprise Infrastructure Solution to reduce GSA telecommunications contracts from 87 to less than ten 	Utilize transactional data to identify the current pricing spread for specific commercial items to reduce the variability between prices charged for like items.   A key external factor is that federal agencies are not required to use GSA for most of their personal property procurements. GSA will focus on providing the best, most cost-effective procurement solutions for agencies, and will support the Administration’s priority to increase savings, adoption, reduce contract duplication, and meet small business participation goals across the federal government. ","General Government||Management",1060,"FY14-15 : Generate savings through Federal Strategic Sourcing Initiative","By September 30, 2015, GSA will save $255 million ($111 million during FY 2014 and $144 million during FY 2015) through the use of Federal Strategic Sourcing Initiative (FSSI). Federal agencies purchase over $500B of goods and services annually. A key vehicle used by GSA, and other top purchasing federal government agencies, to promote cost savings, improved management visibility and adoption of best practices, has been the Federal Strategic Sourcing Initiative. Established in 2005, FSSI is designed to improve government management of commonly purchased goods and services. FSSI provides customers with significant savings, decreases administrative redundancy, and improves business intelligence while meeting or exceeding small business and sustainability goals.  "
