"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Mission Statement","Agency Overview","Stakeholder Engagement","Agency Head Name","Agency Head Title","Agency Website URL","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL","Agency Strategic Plan URL ","Annual Performance Plan URL","Annual Performance Report URL "
"Social Security Administration","016","SSA","Social Security is America’s most valued and successful domestic program.  Our mission is to “Deliver Social Security services that meet the changing needs of the public.”  Our challenge is to maintain and even improve services in a time of fiscal austerity.  Our statutory mandates have never been as complex, and our workloads have never been as great. Hard times require hard choices; we accept that we will not be able to live up to all expectations, even our own. Our strategic plan lays out what we realistically think we can do and why.
","Few government agencies reach as many people as we do. The programs we administer provide a financial safety net for millions of Americans. We run one of the Nation’s largest entitlement programs - the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance program. We also administer the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program, which provides financial support to aged, blind, or disabled adults and children with limited income and resources. In FY 2011, we paid over 60 million people a total of about $770 billion in Social Security benefits and SSI payments.

 

For more information on all of our programs and benefits, please visit our Understanding the Benefits web page at www.ssa.gov/pubs/10024.html

 

Our current organization is composed of over 80,000 Federal and State employees. We deliver services through a nationwide network of 1,500 offices that includes regional offices, field offices (including Social Security card centers), teleservice centers, processing centers, hearing offices (including satellite offices and national hearing centers), the Appeals Council, and our headquarters in Baltimore, Maryland. We also have a presence in several United States embassies around the globe.

 

Our field offices and Social Security card centers are the primary points of contact for in-person interaction with the public. Our teleservice centers primarily handle telephone calls to our National 800 Number. Employees in our processing centers primarily handle Social Security retirement, survivors, and disability payments but also perform a wide range of other functions, which include answering telephone calls to our National 800 Number. We depend on State employees in 54 State and territorial disability determination services to make disability determinations. The administrative law judges in our hearing offices and the Appeals Council make decisions on appeals of denied Social Security and SSI claims. The vast majority of our employees serve the public directly or provide support to employees who do. A chart illustrating our organizational structure and the function of each component is available on our website at www.socialsecurity.gov/org.
","In developing our Agency Strategic Plan, which includes our Priority Goals, we consulted with employees, stakeholders, advisory groups, and Congress. We also conducted an environmental scan to identify current and emerging trends that will directly or indirectly affect our mission, workloads, and business processes. Socioeconomic and demographic changes, along with advancements in technology, have implications for the future of our programs, workforce, and service delivery. We believe our plan provides a framework for our efforts and for thoughtful public discussion of our role and priorities.
","Carolyn W. Colvin","Acting Commissioner","http://www.ssa.gov","http://www.socialsecurity.gov/pgm/links_governance.htm","http://www.socialsecurity.gov/asp","http://www.socialsecurity.gov/performance","http://www.socialsecurity.gov/performance"
