"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Mission Statement","Agency Overview","Stakeholder Engagement","Agency Head Name","Agency Head Title","Agency Website URL","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL","Agency Strategic Plan URL ","Annual Performance Plan URL","Annual Performance Report URL "
"Environmental Protection Agency","020","EPA","The mission of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is to protect human health and the environment.
","EPA works to ensure that:


	All Americans are protected from significant risks to human health and the environment where they live, learn and work;
	National efforts to reduce environmental risk are based on the best available scientific information;
	Federal laws protecting human health and the environment are enforced fairly and effectively;
	Environmental protection is an integral consideration in U.S. policies concerning natural resources, human health, economic growth, energy, transportation, agriculture, industry, and international trade, and these factors are similarly considered in establishing environmental policy;
	All parts of society - communities, individuals, businesses, and state, local and tribal governments - have access to accurate information sufficient to effectively participate in managing human health and environmental risks;
	Environmental protection contributes to making our communities and ecosystems diverse, sustainable and economically productive; and
	The U.S. plays a leadership role in working with other nations to protect the global environment.


 

EPA’s FY 2014-2018 Strategic Plan provides a blueprint for advancing the Administrator's themes and the Agency’s mission.  Issued in April 2014, the Plan identifies the measurable environmental and human health outcomes the public can expect over the next five years and describes how we intend to achieve those results.  It sets forth five strategic goals for achieving these outcomes and four cross-agency strategies for changing the way the Agency works to achieve its results. 

Goal 1: Addressing Climate Change and Improving Air Quality

Goal 2: Protecting America’s Waters

Goal 3: Cleaning Up Communities and Advancing Sustainable Development

Goal 4: Ensuring the Safety of Chemicals and Preventing Pollution

Goal 5: Protecting Human Health and the Environment by Enforcing  Laws and Assuring Compliance

Strategy 1: Working Toward a Sustainable Future

Strategy 2: Working to Make a Visible Difference in Communities

Strategy 3: Launching a New Era of State, Tribal, Local, and International Partnerships

Strategy 4: Embracing EPA as a High-Performing Organization

The cross-agency strategy action plans provide more specific information on how EPA is implementing these strategies.

EPA’s FY 2014-2018 Strategic Plan also identifies the Agency’s FY 2014-2015 priority goals and the Agency has now established FY 2016-2017 priority goals. EPA’s priority goals advance the strategic goals in the Strategic Plan and are specific, measurable, and achievable within 18 to 24 months.  These goals serve as near-term indicators of progress in key programmatic areas and have been established by the Administration as a central focus of its performance management framework.
","","Gina McCarthy","EPA Administrator","http://www.epa.gov","http://www.epa.gov/planandbudget/","http://www.epa.gov/planandbudget/strategicplan","","http://www.epa.gov/planandbudget/fy-2015-annual-performance-report"
