"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Mission Statement","Agency Overview","Stakeholder Engagement","Agency Head Name","Agency Head Title","Agency Website URL","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL","Agency Strategic Plan URL ","Annual Performance Plan URL","Annual Performance Report URL "
"Department of Homeland Security","024","DHS","The Department of Homeland Security will:


	Prevent terrorism and enhance security;
	Secure and manage our borders;
	Enforce and administer our immigration laws;
	Safeguard and secure cyberspace; and
	Strengthen national preparedness and resilience.


We will accomplish these missions while “Maturing and Strengthening” the Department.
","The Department of Homeland Security has a vital mission: to secure the nation from the many threats we face. This requires the dedication of more than 240,000 employees in jobs that range from aviation and border security to emergency response, from cybersecurity analyst to chemical facility inspector. Our duties are wide-ranging, but our goal is clear - keeping America safe. 

 

Performance Data Verification and Validation Process

The Department recognizes the importance of collecting complete, accurate, and reliable performance data since this helps determine progress toward achieving program and Department goals and objectives.  Performance data are considered reliable if transactions and other data that support reported performance measures are properly recorded, processed, and summarized to permit the preparation of performance information in accordance with criteria stated by management.  OMB Circular A-136, Financial Reporting Requirements, OMB Circular A-11, and the Reports Consolidation Act of 2000  (P.L. No. 106-531) further delineate this responsibility by requiring agency heads to attest to the completeness and reliability of the performance data they report and put procedures in place to ensure valid data as part of the Management Assurance process. 

DHS implemented a multi-pronged approach to effectively mitigate risks and reinforce processes that enhance the Department’s ability to report complete and reliable data for GPRAMA performance measure reporting.  This approach consists of the:  1) Performance Measure Definition Form (PMDF); 2) Performance Measure Checklist for Completeness and Reliability; and 3) annual assessments of the completeness and reliability of a sample of our performance measures by an independent review team.

Performance Measure Definition Form (PMDF)

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer/Program Analysis and Evaluation (CFO/PA&E) implemented a tool known as the PMDF that provides a structured format to operationally describe every measure we publicly report in our performance deliverables.  The PMDF provides instructions on completing all data fields and includes elements such as the measure name, description, scope of data included and excluded, where the data is collected and stored, a summary of the data collection and computation process, and what processes exist to double-check the accuracy of the data to ensure reliability. These data fields on the form reflect GAO’s recommended elements regarding data quality.  This information is maintained in a Department IT system, and is published annually as Appendix A to our Annual Performance Report.  The PMDF is also used as a change management tool to propose and review new measures, make changes to existing measures, and to retire measures we want to remove from our strategic and management measure sets.  GAO recently cited DHS’s thoroughness in collecting and reporting this information in their review of the quality of performance information in their report:  Managing for Results: Greater Transparency Needed in Public Reporting Quality of Performance Information for Selected Agencies’ Priority Goals (GAO-15-788). 

Central Information Technology Repository for Performance Measure Information 

All of DHS’s approved measures are maintained in a Department-wide system accessible to all relevant parties in DHS.  The system is a modular database which allows for the management of the Department’s performance plan and the capturing of performance results on a quarterly basis.  The system stores all historical information about each measure including specific details regarding:  scope; data source; data collection methodology; and explanation of data reliability check.  The data in the system is then used as the source for all quarterly and annual Performance and Accountability Reporting.  Finally, the performance data in the FYHSP System is used to populate the Department’s business intelligence tools to provide real-time information.  

Performance Measure Checklist for Completeness and Reliability

The Performance Measure Checklist for Completeness and Reliability is a means for Component Performance Improvement Officers (PIOs) to attest to the quality of the information they are providing in our performance and accountability reports. Using the Checklist, Components self-evaluate key controls over GPRAMA performance measure planning and reporting actions at the end of each fiscal year. Components describe their control activities and provide a rating regarding their level of compliance and actions taken for each key control.  Components also factor the results of any internal or independent measure assessments into their rating.  The Checklist supports the Component Head assurance statements attesting to the completeness and reliability of performance data.  Individual Component Head assurance statements serve as the primary basis for the Secretary’s assertion whether or not the Department has effective controls over financial and performance reporting as well as efficiencies of our operations.

Independent Assessment of the Completeness and Reliability of Performance Measure Data

CFO/PA&E conducts an assessment of performance measure data for completeness and reliability on a subset of its performance measures annually using an independent review team.  An independent review team assesses selected Component GPRAMA measures using the methodology prescribed in the DHS Performance Measure Verification and Validation Handbook, documents their findings, makes recommendations for improvement, and may perform a subsequent follow-up review to observe the implementation of recommendations.  Corrective actions are required for performance measures determined to be unreliable.  The Handbook is distributed and made available to all Components to encourage the development and maturation of internal data verification and validation capabilities, increase transparency, and facilitate the review process.  The results obtained from the independent assessments are also used to support Component Head assertions over the reliability of its performance information reported in the Performance Measure Checklist and Component Head Assurance Statement.  DHS has shared our process with other Agencies in support of their measure data verification and validation improvement efforts.

Management Assurance Process for GPRAMA Performance Measure Information

The Management Assurance Process requires all Component Heads in DHS to assert that performance measure data reported in the Department’s Performance and Accountability Reports are complete and reliable.  If a measure is considered unreliable, the Component is directed to report the measure on the Performance Measure Checklist for Completeness and Reliability along with the corrective actions the Component is taking to correct the measure’s reliability.

 
","DHS engaged with stakeholders across the homeland security enterprise in formulating the second Quadrennial Homeland Security Review (QHSR), and the FY14-18 Agency Strategic Plan which contained the FY13-15 Agency Priority Goals.

DHS will conduct briefings with Congressional staff, including multiple briefings to staff from the House Homeland Security Committee, the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee, and the House and Senate Appropriations Subcommittees on Homeland Security, as well as brief staff from the House Energy and Commerce Committee, the House Judiciary Committee, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, the Senate Commerce Committee, and the Senate Judiciary Committee.

DHS will engage with stakeholder associations across the homeland security enterprise and subject matter experts across all levels of government, as well as academia and the private sector in conducting the QHSR. The Department worked to ensure the broadest possible outreach to critical state, local, tribal and territorial partners as well as the general public, including through:


	Stakeholder call for comment events;
	Collaborative National QHSR Dialogue; and
	Stakeholder Executive Committee Meetings

","Jeh Johnson","Secretary","http://www.dhs.gov","http://www.dhs.gov/performance-accountability","http://www.dhs.gov/office-strategic-plans","http://www.dhs.gov/performance-accountability","http://www.dhs.gov/performance-accountability"
