"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Mission Statement","Agency Overview","Stakeholder Engagement","Agency Head Name","Agency Head Title","Agency Website URL","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL","Agency Strategic Plan URL ","Annual Performance Plan URL","Annual Performance Report URL "
"Small Business Administration","028","SBA","The U.S. Small Business Administration’s mission is to maintain and strengthen the Nation’s economy by enabling the establishment and vitality of small businesses and by assisting in the economic recovery of communities after disasters.
","When, following the suggestion of President Eisenhower, congress passed the Small Business Act and created the U.S. small Business Administration (SBA) in 1953, its stated mission was to “aid, counsel, assist and protect, insofar as is possible, the interests of small business concerns,” and also ensure small businesses a “fair proportion” of government contracts.

Sixty years later, the landscape of the nation has changed substantially, but SBA’s mission and its commitment to the interests of America’s small business remain the same.

During the past six decades, SBA has helped tens of millions of small businesses start, grow and succeed by expanding access to capital, federal contracts, counseling and entrepreneurial education.  In addition, SBA disaster loans have helped more than a million homeowners and renters, and hundreds of thousands of businesses recover and rebuild their lives.

America’s 28 million small business owners are the engine of job creation and economic growth in this country, creating nearly two out of every three net new jobs in the United States, and employing over half of the nation’s workforce.  The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) ensures that these businesses have the tools and resources they need to start and expand their operations and create good jobs that support a growing economy and strong middle class.

The SBA has a proven track record of assisting America’s small businesses by increasing and improving access to capital, federal contracting opportunities, entrepreneurial development, and disaster assistance.  The Agency also boosts America’s long-term competitiveness by improving the entrepreneurial ecosystem to ensure small business owners and entrepreneurs are well positioned to take advantage of new opportunities and new markets as the economy improves.
","In order to solicit, gather, analyze, apply and respond to input from interested parties regarding the Strategic Plan FY 2014-2018, SBA performed outreach with House and Senate staff, the Office of Management and Budget, and SBA employees in the early fall and the broader public.  The plan represents a slight update of the Strategic Plan FY 2011-2016 which received significant input from external stakeholder groups, agency employees, and comments from the Federal Register.  For stakeholder outreach on this plan, SBA captured all comments received and tracked actions taken regarding those comments.  All relevant comments were presented to and discussed with senior SBA leaders and the plan amended accordingly.
","Maria Contreras-Sweet ","Administrator","http://www.sba.gov","https://www.sba.gov/about-sba/sba-performance/performance-budget-finances","https://www.sba.gov/about-sba/sba-performance/strategic-planning/sba-strategic-plan-fiscal-years-2014-2018","https://www.sba.gov/about-sba/sba-performance/performance-budget-finances/congressional-budget-justification-annual-performance-report","https://www.sba.gov/about-sba/sba-performance/performance-budget-finances/agency-financial-reports  "
