"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Mission Statement","Agency Overview","Stakeholder Engagement","Agency Head Name","Agency Head Title","Agency Website URL","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL","Agency Strategic Plan URL ","Annual Performance Plan URL","Annual Performance Report URL "
"Department of Housing and Urban Development","025","HUD","The mission of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is to create strong, sustainable, inclusive communities and quality affordable homes for all. 
","
In 1965, the United States Congress established the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) as an Executive, Cabinet-level agency, to:


	Foster the orderly growth and development of the nation's urban areas;
	Coordinate Federal activities affecting housing and urban development;
	Provide technical assistance and information to aid state, county, town, or other local governments in developing solutions to community and metropolitan development problems;
	Encourage effective regional cooperation in the planning and conduct of community and metropolitan development programs and projects;
	Encourage and develop the fullest cooperation with private enterprise in achieving the objectives of the Department; and
	Conduct continuing comprehensive studies, and make available findings, with respect to the problems of housing and urban development


The Department accomplishes its mission through component organizations and offices that administer various programs, which are carried out through a network of regional offices and smaller field offices, as well as through grantees, contractors, and other business partners.

HUD program areas include:


	The Office of Housing -- Federal Housing Administration (Housing/FHA)
	The Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae)
	The Office of Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
	The Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
	The Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
	The Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
	The Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships (CFBNP)


In addition to these program organizations, HUD has a number of key support organizations.  One of these support organizations plays a unique role in the formulation of policy and program design -- the Office of Policy Development and Research.  This Office is responsible for maintaining current information on housing needs, market conditions, and existing programs, as well as conducting research on priority housing and community development issues.  The Office also provides objective program evaluation, data, and analysis to inform policy decisions and improve program results.

The FY 2010 establishment of three new offices within the Office of the Deputy Secretary -- the Office of Sustainable Housing and Communities, the Office of Strategic Planning and Management, and the Office of the Chief Operating Officer -- will help guide fundamental changes throughout the Department that will promote a greater focus on the nation's needs and better results in our key areas.  The Office of Sustainable Housing and Communities manages HUD's relationships with other Cabinet agencies and provides communities with the support they need to ensure housing, transportation, energy, and ""green"" building investments are working together to build strong neighborhoods.  The Office of Strategic Planning and Management facilitates and manages HUD's strategic planning and performance measurement process and oversees HUD's FY 2009 Recovery Act programs with $13.6 billion in funding.  HUD's new Office of the Chief Operating Officer will provide leadership and a comprehensive strategy for HUD's operations, including procurement, human resources, and information technology with direct oversight from the Deputy Secretary.

HUD develops a 5-year strategic plan, as well as an annual performance plan and annual report on our progress. As part of developing the 2011 Budget and performance plan, HUD has also identified a limited number of high priority performance goals that are a focus from 2010 through mid 2012. These goals are a subset of those used to regularly monitor and report performance. To view the full set of performance information please visit:http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/cfo/reports/cforept


 
","In early 2013, HUD embarked on a strategic planning process, coordinated by the Office of Strategic Planning and Management, to set the course of the Department over the next five years. The Department employed a broad engagement strategy to collect input from many knowledgeable employees and partners—voices critical to HUD’s transformation. As in the development of its last Strategic Plan, HUD once again welcomed suggestions and feedback from its staff, stakeholders, and the public through a variety of channels. Switchboard (hud.gov/switchboard), HUD’s online ideation and engagement platform, allowed anyone interested in shaping the plan to post, vote, and comment on ideas, generating suggestions used to strengthen our goals and management objectives.

Meanwhile, HUD held live and virtual feedback sessions to foster collective discussion around the plan’s framework, connecting employees at headquarters and in the field, and in certain cities inviting local partners to join the live conversation. Each strategic objective in the plan has one or more assigned leaders who helped to spearhead the conversation around that objective with both internal agency staff and external partners and thought leaders. HUD also held a managers’ summit at headquarters to review the evolving framework. As each management objective was strengthened by this input over time, it was presented to HUD’s Deputy Secretary for review, with invited input from union leadership as well. Additionally, HUD sought feedback on its draft plan from Congress to ensure that the goals and objectives articulated by the Department were reviewed by Congressional partners as the plan evolved. The plan overall was enhanced by all of these inputs, together with feedback from The Office of Management and Budget and White House advisors.

The strategic planning process generated valuable ideas, increased dialogue among parties invested in HUD’s success, and laid the foundation for all stakeholders to support the accomplishment of HUD’s goals.
.

 
","Julián Castro, Nani A. Coloretti ","Secretary, Deputy Secretary","http://www.hud.gov","http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/spm/appr","http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/spm/strategicplan2014_2018","http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/documents/huddoc?id=2017_APP_2015_APR_Final.pdf","http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/documents/huddoc?id=2017_APP_2015_APR_Final.pdf"
