"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Mission Statement","Agency Overview","Stakeholder Engagement","Agency Head Name","Agency Head Title","Agency Website URL","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL","Agency Strategic Plan URL ","Annual Performance Plan URL","Annual Performance Report URL "
"Department of Energy","019","DOE","Enhance U.S. security and economic growth through transformative science, technology innovation, and market solutions to meet our energy, nuclear security, and environmental challenges
","The Department of Energy (DOE) is responsible for advancing the energy, environmental, and nuclear security of the United States; promoting scientific and technological innovation in support of that mission; sponsoring basic research in the physical sciences; and ensuring the environmental cleanup of the nation’s nuclear weapons complex.

The Science and Energy, Nuclear Security, and Management and Performance strategic goals in the Strategic Plan are aligned with the DOE organizational structure adopted in August 2013. Three Under Secretaries manage the core functions that carry out the DOE mission with significant cross-cutting work spanning across the enterprise. The DOE enterprise is comprised of approximately 14,000 federal employees and over 90,000 management and operating contractor and other contractor employees at the Department’s headquarters in Washington, D.C., and at 85 field locations. DOE operates a nationwide system of 17 national laboratories that provides world-class scientific, technological, and engineering capabilities, including the operation of national scientific user facilities used by over 29,000 researchers from academia, government, and industry. The range, scale and excellence of science and technology (S&T) at the DOE laboratories provide strategic assets to accomplish DOE missions, support government responses to unforeseen domestic and international emergencies, and provide technical capabilities to help shape the global S&T agenda.

Science and Energy – DOE leads the nation in the transformational research, development, demonstration, and deployment of an extensive range of clean energy and efficiency technologies, supporting the President’s Climate Action Plan and an “all of the above” energy strategy. DOE identifies and promotes advances in fundamental and applied sciences; translates cutting-edge inventions into technological innovations; and accelerates transformational technological advances in energy areas that industry by itself is not likely to undertake because of technical or financial risk. DOE also leads national efforts to develop technologies to modernize the electricity grid, enhance the security and resilience of energy infrastructure, and expedite recovery from energy supply disruptions. DOE also conducts robust, integrated policy analysis and regional engagement to support the nation’s energy agenda.

DOE is the largest federal sponsor of basic research in the physical sciences. DOE world-leading research in the physical, chemical, biological, environmental, and computational sciences contributes fundamental scientific discoveries and technological solutions that support the nation’s primacy in science and innovation.

Nuclear Security – DOE enhances the security and safety of the nation through its national security endeavors: maintaining a safe, secure, and effective nuclear weapons stockpile in the absence of nuclear testing and managing the research, development, and production activities and associated infrastructure needed to meet national nuclear security requirements; accelerating and expanding efforts to reduce the global threat posed by nuclear weapons, nuclear proliferation and unsecured or excess nuclear materials; and, providing safe and effective nuclear propulsion for the U.S. Navy. As a result of the expertise developed to support these nuclear security missions, DOE laboratories also serve as strategic assets in support of broader national security missions.

Management and Performance – DOE leads the largest cleanup effort in the world to remediate the environmental legacy of over six decades of nuclear weapons and nuclear research, development, and production. As DOE carries out its mission, it will strengthen effective and cost-efficient management, support an engaged workforce, and provide a modern, secure physical and information technology infrastructure. DOE remains committed to maintaining a safe and secure work environment for all personnel and to ensuring that its operations preserve the health, safety, and security of the surrounding communities.

 
","","Dr. Ernest Moniz","Secretary","http://www.energy.gov","http://energy.gov/about-us/budget-performance","http://energy.gov/downloads/2014-2018-strategic-plan","http://energy.gov/cfo/downloads/fy-2015-budget-justification","http://energy.gov/downloads/2014-2018-strategic-plan"
