"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Mission Statement","Agency Overview","Stakeholder Engagement","Agency Head Name","Agency Head Title","Agency Website URL","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL","Agency Strategic Plan URL ","Annual Performance Plan URL","Annual Performance Report URL "
"Department of Defense","007","DOD","The mission of the Department of Defense (DOD) is to provide the military forces needed to deter war and to protect the security of the United States. Since the creation of America’s first army in 1775, the Department and its predecessor organizations have evolved into a global presence of three million individuals, stationed in more than 140 countries and dedicated to defending the United States by deterring and defeating aggression and coercion in critical regions. The Department embraces the core values of leadership, professionalism, and technical knowledge. Its employees are dedicated to duty, integrity, ethics, honor, courage, and loyalty.
","The  Department of Defense (DoD)  is  one  of  the  nation’s  largest  employers,  with  approximately  1.4  million  Active Component,  836,000  Selected  Reserve  and  245,000  Individual  Ready  Reserve  forces;  and 735,000 appropriated and 126,000 non-appropriated civilian employees. Our military service members and civilians operate in every time zone and in every climate, and more than 450,000 of our employees serve overseas.  As one of the nation’s largest health-care providers, the DoD cares for almost 9.5 million beneficiaries. DoD executes a multibillion dollar global supply chain, manages a five million item inventory, and operates with a $500 billion dollar budget. The DoD’s real property infrastructure includes over 561,975 facilities (buildings and structures) located on 4,800 sites worldwide. These sites represent nearly 25 million acres; sized from the training ranges of nearly 3 million acres, such as Nellis Air Force Base, to single weather towers or navigational aids isolated on sites of less than one one-hundredth (0.01) of an acre. To protect the security of the United States, the Department operates approximately 5,285 aircraft and 293 ships.

The Department engages in Warfighting, Humanitarian Aid, Peacekeeping, Disaster Relief and Homeland Security, while simultaneously performing functions necessary to effectively and efficiently support our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines and their families.

The Department has five overarching Strategic Goals, as reflected in the DoD's 2015-2018 Agency Strategic Plan:

1.  Defeat our Adversaries, Deter War, and Defend the Nation.

2.  Sustain a Ready Force to Meet Mission Needs.

3.  Strengthen and Enhance the Health and Effectiveness of the Total Workforce.

4.  Achieve Dominant Capabilities through Innovation and Technical Excellence.

5.  Reform and Reshape the Defense Institution.
","The President, as Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces, is the senior military authority in the nation ultimately responsible for the protection of the U.S. from all enemies, foreign and domestic. We report to our Commander-in-Chief and execute the directions of the administration elected to serve the nation. The U.S. Congress is our Board of Directors as part of the Constitution’s system of checks and balances. We further have responsibility to our armed forces who risk their well-being for the nation. The American people are our citizen stockholders we exist  to  protect.  In  developing  the DoD Agency Strategic Plan,  periodic  consultations  have  included
solicitation and consideration of views and suggestions with our interested stakeholders.
 
","Ashton B. Carter","Secretary of Defense","http://www.defense.gov/","http://comptroller.defense.gov/","http://dcmo.defense.gov/Portals/47/Documents/Publications/SMP/FY2016_2018SMP.pdf","http://dcmo.defense.gov/Publications/AnnualPerformancePlanandPerformanceReport.aspx","http://dcmo.defense.gov/Portals/47/Documents/Publications/Annual%20Performance%20Plan/FY_2015_Annual_Performance_Report.pdf"
