"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Mission Statement","Agency Overview","Stakeholder Engagement","Agency Head Name","Agency Head Title","Agency Website URL","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL","Agency Strategic Plan URL ","Annual Performance Plan URL","Annual Performance Report URL "
"Department of Commerce","006","DOC","The Department of Commerce creates the conditions for economic growth and opportunity.
","The Department accomplishes its mission through direct assistance to businesses and communities, targeted investment in world-class research, science, technology, and more. The Secretary of Commerce leads the Department and its 12 bureaus with a budget of about $8.0 billion and nearly 47,000 employees worldwide.

The Department of Commerce helps American businesses drive economic growth and job creation in a number of critical areas:


	Critical programs at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) support innovation and cutting-edge manufacturers which in turn create good-paying jobs.



	Through protecting the intellectual property that sustains innovation, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) contributes directly to strengthening America’s leadership in manufacturing. USPTO is currently implementing patent reform legislation that will help modernize the U.S. patent system.
	The Economic Development Administration (EDA) invests in competitive, job-creating, advanced manufacturing projects and regional innovation clusters.
	The Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) supports the competitiveness of minority-owned firms.
	By connecting U.S. businesses with opportunities abroad, the International Trade Administration (ITA) advances the goals of the National Export Initiative, works to remove trade barriers and promotes new business investment in the United States from foreign and domestic companies.
	The Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) improves our economic security through efforts to reform our outdated export control laws.
	Critical to our competitiveness, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) expands broadband Internet access and ensures the Internet remains an engine for innovation and economic growth.
	The Economics and Statistics Administration (ESA), including the Census Bureau and Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), provide the economic and demographic data to evaluate growth, understand markets, and help American businesses make decisions for the future.
	By providing data that supports marine commerce, sustainable use of ocean resources, and accurate weather and climate forecasting, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) supports sustainable communities and economies.


The Department issued an updated five-year strategic plan in June 2011 which outlines its strategic goals and objectives as well as the programs, strategies, and metrics used to achieve them and track their attainment.  The strategic plan is implemented through annual performance plans, which are integral elements of the Department's annual budget proposals.  Progress is documented through annual Performance and Accountability Reports.  The Department has also identified a limited number of priority goals that are a particular focus over the near-term.  Priority goals for FY 2012-2013 are outlined in a February 2012 addendum to the strategic plan (Appendix B).

The full set of the Department's planning, performance, and budget information is available at: http://www.osec.doc.gov/bmi/budget/
","The Department selected its agency priority goals for FY 2012-2013 from among its many activities during this time frame that will yield demonstrable benefits to the public by addressing challenges of particular importance to the Nation.  These key challenges reflect specific goals and objectives outlined in the Department’s FY 2011-2016 Strategic Plan.   The Department solicited the views of stakeholders, including members of Congress, in developing the FY 2011-2016 Strategic Plan.  A copy of the draft Plan under development was published in the Federal Register with a request for comment.  Communications were sent to the Chair and Ranking Member of Congressional committees relevant to the Department to advise them of the availability of the draft Plan and to solicit their input.   The final FY 2011-2016 Strategic Plan was issued by (former) Secretary Gary Locke on June 6, 2011 and was updated to incorporate the FY 2012-2013 Department’s priority goals in February 2012.
","Penny Pritzker"," Secretary of Commerce","http://www.commerce.gov","http://www.osec.doc.gov/bmi/budget/","https://www.commerce.gov/sites/commerce.gov/files/media/files/2014/doc_fy2014-2018_strategic_plan.pdf","http://www.osec.doc.gov/bmi/budget/DOC_FY_15-17%20APPR_FINAL_2-10-2016.pdf","http://www.osec.doc.gov/bmi/budget/DOC_FY_15-17%20APPR_FINAL_2-10-2016.pdf"
