<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?><data><Strategic_Objective><Agency_Code>18</Agency_Code><Agency_Acronym>ED</Agency_Acronym><Strategic_Objective_ID>620</Strategic_Objective_ID><Strategic_Objective_Header>Access and Affordability</Strategic_Objective_Header><Themes><Theme>Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services</Theme></Themes><Strategic_Objective_Statement>Close the opportunity gap by improving the affordability of and access to college and/or workforce training, especially for underrepresented and/or underprepared populations (e.g., low-income and first-generation students, English learners, individuals with disabilities, adults without high school diplomas, etc.).
</Strategic_Objective_Statement><Strategic_Objective_Overview></Strategic_Objective_Overview><Strategic_Objective_Lead_Office>Office of the Under Secretary; Federal Student Aid; Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services</Strategic_Objective_Lead_Office><Strategic_Objective_Progress_Update>The Department supported or initiated a number of efforts and made progress toward this objective, despite limited ability to impact college costs or control price. The Department unveiled the expanded College Scorecard, a college choice tool that provides a wealth of customizable data—including many important metrics that have not been published before—so students and families can make informed choices based on the criteria most important to them. The Department also made the data behind the Scorecard publicly available in order to jumpstart efforts across the country to develop meaningful metrics for accountability. The Department continues to seek ways to simplify the FAFSA so it is easier and faster for students and families to apply for financial aid. Beginning with the 2017–18 award year, students can apply earlier and electronically retrieve tax information filed for an earlier year, rather than waiting until tax season to complete their applications. The number of IHEs agreeing to utilize the Financial Aid Shopping Sheet, a model form that makes it easier for students to compare financial aid offers, grew from around 2,000 in 2013–14 to more than 3,000 in 2014–15 following an outreach effort to encourage institutions to sign on.

Recognizing that FAFSA completion significantly increases chances that students will actually enroll in college, the Department issued guidance clarifying that state authorities may share FAFSA completion data with nonprofit organizations. This adds to the list of authorized entities that includes LEAs, The Federal TRIO Programs (TRIO) and Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP) grantees, tribal education authorities, and Indian organizations, so those entities can maximize the number of their students that complete the FAFSA.

The Department has taken additional actions to help struggling federal student loan borrowers manage their debt. The Department held negotiated rulemaking sessions and finalized regulations in October 2015 that expand Pay As You Earn, an income-based repayment program, to all student borrowers who have direct loans. In the wake of the collapse of Corinthian Colleges, the Department announced in June of this year that it would begin implementing a previously little-used provision in the law called “defense to repayment,” which allows borrowers to seek loan forgiveness if they believe they were defrauded by their college under state law, and assigned a Special Master to oversee the high volume of loan discharge cases. Since then, the Special Master has issued two reports with recommendations for developing a process to handle these borrower defense claims. The Department also announced its intent to establish a negotiated rulemaking committee in FY 2016 to address loan discharge and borrower defense issues, held two public hearings in September for the rulemaking, and since the end of the fiscal year has selected negotiators and announced three negotiated rulemaking sessions to be held in January, February, and March. The Department began to wind down contracts with five private collection agencies that provided inaccurate information to borrowers, and is revising existing contracts to ensure the proper balance between the interests of the borrower and of the taxpayer, as well as to increase the Department’s oversight capabilities.

Subsequent to FY 2015, the Department issued a report on October 1, 2015 with U.S. Department of the Treasury (Treasury) and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau on a series of statutory, regulatory, and administrative recommendations to safeguard student borrowers. The recommendations include establishing: a way for borrowers to authorize the Internal Revenue Service to release income information for multiple years to the Department to determine monthly payments under income-driven repayment plans; loan servicing standards; principles for borrower defense legislation; a streamlined discharge process for borrowers eligible for a total and permanent disability discharge of their loans; increased borrower protections in the federal student loan program; and protections for private student loan borrowers. The Under Secretary is overseeing a process to collect feedback from student borrowers and loan servicers in order to strengthen loan servicer contracts when they are renegotiated in the future.

Research indicates that correctional education programs for prisoners reduce recidivism rates. The Department therefore launched a Second Chance Pell Grant pilot through the Experimental Sites program. The goal of this limited pilot program is to increase access to high-quality educational opportunities and help incarcerated individuals successfully transition out of prison and back into the classroom or the workforce. In addition, the Department invested in a series of demonstration projects through the Improving Reentry Education grant competition, and launched a program to improve the outcomes of juvenile justice youth in the reentry process through a strong partnership with the Department of Justice (DOJ).

The partial restoration of Ability to Benefit provisions tied to career pathways restored access to federal student aid for millions of older youth and adults who lack a high school credential and are enrolled in a program that is part of a career pathway. The Department provided guidance through a Dear Colleague letter and initiated a series of webinars and other technical assistance activities to hold up programs and institutions that illustrate how to appropriately administer these new provisions. These efforts significantly open up affordable opportunities for those who were unable to complete high school due to a variety of reasons.

As part of the Reach Higher Campaign, the Department collaborated with the Office of the First Lady to create a competition to promote the development of mobile app solutions that will help students navigate education and career pathways, including CTE. (The competition was subsequently announced in October 2015.)

Although results for metrics 1.1.A, 1.1.B, 1.1.C, 1.1.D, and 1.1.E are influenced by actions taken by the Department, they are most influenced by factors that are beyond the control of the Department. For example, results for metrics 1.1.A and 1.1.B are most influenced by actions taken by postsecondary institutions, state and local agencies regarding funding decisions, and market forces and job creation trends. The Department met its FY 2015 performance targets for metrics 1.1.A and 1.1.B to slow the increase in average net price at public institutions. However, given the Department’s limited ability to influence net price, the Department plans to replace these metrics with different metrics for FY 2016.

Regarding metric 1.1.C, the Department achieved its FY 2015 performance target to increase the number of high school students completing the FAFSA. Efforts such as the FAFSA completion project, increased outreach activities by FSA and other offices, and the Department’s participation in the American Council on Education’s National College Application Week initiative since 2011, likely contributed to success with this target.

States are required to submit data for metrics 1.1.D and 1.1.E by November 30 for the previous fiscal year. As such, the FY 2015 data are not available until spring 2016. The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA), signed by the President in July 2014, reforms the public workforce system by strengthening alignment and access to employment, training, education, and support services needed to succeed in the labor market. In particular, the WIOA includes many changes that are designed to strengthen and improve employment for individuals with disabilities, many served by the State Vocational Rehabilitation Services and Supported Employment programs. WIOA places significant emphasis on obtaining competitive integrated employment, especially in the amendments to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Program services are designed to maximize the ability of individuals with disabilities, including individuals with the most significant disabilities, to achieve competitive integrated employment through customized employment, supported employment, and other individualized services. The Department will continue to track national aggregate annual earnings of Vocational Rehabilitation consumers and transition-aged youth. Future annual earnings are expected to improve by the regulatory actions that the Department will undertake in FY 2016.
</Strategic_Objective_Progress_Update></Strategic_Objective><Strategic_Goals><Strategic_Goal><id>499</id><strategic_goal_header>Postsecondary Education, Career and Technical Education, and Adult Education</strategic_goal_header><strategic_goal_statement>Increase college access, affordability, quality, and completion by improving postsecondary education and lifelong learning opportunities for youths and adults.
</strategic_goal_statement><strategic_goal_overview>Dramatically boosting completion rates for bachelor’s and associate degrees is essential for Americans to compete in a global economy. The President thus set a goal in 2009—that, by 2020, the U.S. will have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. Meeting this goal will require millions of additional Americans to earn a bachelor’s or an associate degree or certificate by the end of this decade—a 50 percent increase nationwide. The President has also challenged every American to complete at least one year of higher education or career training—at a two- or four-year postsecondary institution, or through a vocational training program or apprenticeship.
 
The President’s agenda for postsecondary reform calls for a spirit of shared responsibility in addressing college access, affordability, quality, and the imperative for students to complete their certificates or degrees. Neither the federal government alone, nor any other single sector, can make the investments or create changes needed to move our country forward. This work requires unprecedented collaboration and innovation.
 
And, increased college enrollment is not enough. To advance the nation toward achieving the 2020 goal, institutions of higher education must ensure that students successfully complete with degrees and certificates. In addition, as part of its career and technical education (CTE) transformation strategy, the Department must help support state- and industry-led efforts to introduce students to careers and provide them with the knowledge and skills to enter technical fields. Furthermore, to ensure a sustainable national economy, the Department should work with the National Science Foundation and other agencies to help colleges and universities increase the enrollment and completion rates of students with degrees and certificates in fields related to science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM).
 
The Department must ensure that all students—recent high school graduates and adult learners alike—are well prepared for college and careers, help more of them enroll in postsecondary education, and increase the number of those who complete programs of study with a degree or certificate.
 
Prior to entering postsecondary education, prospective students need easily accessible information on the cost of attendance, career placement and graduation rates, college loan default rates, earnings of graduates, public-service and private-sector opportunities, loan management options, and other subjects crucial to understanding the affordability and value of the postsecondary institutions and/or programs of study that they are considering. Students deserve to know that, whether they enter a college, university, postsecondary career training program, or adult education program, the credential they earn will be affordable and its value will be recognized as an indication that they possess the necessary knowledge and skills for success in the workplace and in life.
 
Providing federal student aid in a simple, reliable, and efficient manner is the main way that the Department supports college access, affordability, quality, and completion. In FY 2012, the Department delivered nearly $142 billion in grants, work-study, and loan assistance to approximately 15 million postsecondary students and their families. These students attended approximately 6,200 institutions of postsecondary education accredited by dozens of agencies. In addition, the Department administers $2 billion annually in grants to strengthen postsecondary institutions and promote college readiness, and another $2 billion in grant funds for CTE, adult education (including literacy and citizenship education), and correctional education to help adults secure the skills that equip them for work, civic participation, and lifelong learning.
 
The Department has already taken significant steps to increase college access, affordability, quality, and completion. Through the SAFRA Act, passed as part of the Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (HCERA), Congress ended student loan subsidies to banks, saving billions of dollars that are now used for financial aid through the Pell Grant program and for reducing borrowers’ monthly repayment amounts. Resources developed by the Department, such as the College Affordability and Transparency Center, the Financial Aid Shopping Sheet, the College Scorecard, and a consolidated student aid website from the Department’s Federal Student Aid (FSA) office (www.studentaid.gov), now provide students and families with better tools for informed decision-making. Additionally, as generally described in FSA’s Five Year Strategic Plan for FY 2012-16, FSA recently launched two new products.  The first product is the Financial Aid Toolkit, which provides free and ready-made resources online for organizations wishing to engage students about financial aid.  The second is the Financial Awareness Counseling Tool (FACT), an online, interactive loan counseling tool that helps students and families better manage their finances and understand their financial obligations as borrowers.  FSA initiated the Integrated Student Experience (ISE) initiative to establish an integrated, customer-focused web experience for students, parents and borrowers to facilitate decision-making about funding postsecondary education.  Finally, the Department has simplified the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) so it is easier and faster for students to apply for aid.
 
During the next four years, the Department will build on these efforts to ensure that all Americans, regardless of background, will have the opportunity to access and complete an affordable postsecondary degree or other postsecondary credential.
How will we measure success?  
 
The Department will use the following indicators to measure its success in improving college access and affordability, college completion, academic quality, and STEM pathway opportunities.
 
Postsecondary Education, Career and Technical Education, and Adult Education Indicators of Success
 
Reduce rate of increase in average net price of public two- and four-year institutions
Decrease number of low-performing institutions
Increase degree attainment among 25-34 year old age cohort
Increase retention rate of first-time degree-seeking undergraduates
Increase number of STEM postsecondary credentials awarded
Percent of high school seniors filing a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
Increase the national earnings of adults and transition-age youth with disabilities, including those with significant disabilities
Increase the number of  stakeholders, including Vocational Rehabilitation State Directors and other State Vocational Rehabilitation staff who express knowledge of NIDRR[1] grantee research
Increase the number of NIDRR supported grantee projects providing training to stakeholders on disability issues
 
What could hold us back?  What’s beyond our control?  (External Risk Factors)
The Department will encourage states and institutions of higher education to adopt policies and strategies to improve student outcomes and even out or minimize increases in the cost of tuition, books, and related items. Success will depend, to some degree, on the extent to which states and institutions (a) implement policies and programs to increase student retention and persistence to graduation, (b) accelerate college completion, (c) offer dual high school and postsecondary enrollments, (d) develop and use online, open‑source materials, (e) better align high school completion and postsecondary entrance requirements, (f) better align transfer requirements that lead to baccalaureate degrees, and (g) invest in higher education at the state level.  The Department has limited ability to influence such outcomes without new programs that are specifically structured to drive this kind of change. In addition, modifications to statewide longitudinal and other data systems are necessary to better track the nation’s progress in improving access to postsecondary education, completion of postsecondary degrees and certificates, and success in the workforce and society.  Finally, high-quality technical assistance is needed to address the limited capacity of states and school districts to advance programs in high-need areas, such as STEM.
The nation also sorely needs the reauthorization of key federal legislation, including the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), the Workforce Investment Act (WIA), the Higher Education Act (HEA), and the Career and Technical Education Act (CTEA), in order to support the implementation of more rigorous high school standards and postsecondary and adult education reforms that will increase student achievement and career and civic success.  Moreover, postsecondary institutions must increase their capacity to serve the growing number of Americans who require education and/or training beyond high school to compete in the workplace, particularly the tens of millions of Americans who have basic literacy and workforce training needs.  In an economy where state funding for higher education is threatened, institutions are struggling to serve more students with fewer resources.  In addition, many students arrive at college unprepared for college-level work. This need for remediation diverts resources that would be better directed toward supporting students’ persistence in and completion of their education.  To be effective in all of these areas, postsecondary institutions must continue to find ways to be innovative and productive in providing educational services—even as they collaborate with the pre-K – 12 sector to improve the college- and career-readiness of learners.
Historically, as unemployment rates decline, the number of young adults immediately pursuing a postsecondary education decreases.  This, in turn, potentially decreases FAFSA completion rates. In addition, other economic factors contributed to the large and likely unsustainable increases in FAFSA submissions for several cycles through 2012.  With a still-improving economy, completion rates have yet to stabilize and may affect overall FAFSA completion rates.  To address these external factors, the Department and FSA will continue to focus efforts on increasing FAFSA accessibility and ease of use.  To ensure a positive experience for users, FSA will enhance partnerships with states, federal agencies, nonprofits, and the private sector to ensure a positive experience for users.
 
[1] National Institute on Disabilities and Rehabilitation Research.
</strategic_goal_overview><themes></themes></Strategic_Goal></Strategic_Goals><Agency_Priority_Goals></Agency_Priority_Goals></data>