<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?><data><Strategic_Objective><Agency_Code>18</Agency_Code><Agency_Acronym>ED</Agency_Acronym><Strategic_Objective_ID>622</Strategic_Objective_ID><Strategic_Objective_Header>Completion</Strategic_Objective_Header><Themes><Theme>Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services</Theme></Themes><Strategic_Objective_Statement>Increase degree and certificate completion and job placement in high-need and high-skill areas, particularly among underrepresented and/or underprepared populations.
</Strategic_Objective_Statement><Strategic_Objective_Overview></Strategic_Objective_Overview><Strategic_Objective_Lead_Office>Office of the Under Secretary</Strategic_Objective_Lead_Office><Strategic_Objective_Progress_Update>The Department made progress through a variety of activities to support this strategic objective, especially by embedding a focus on completion in more grant competitions. One competition incorporated a competitive preference priority to increase postsecondary access, affordability and completion: Predominantly Black Institutions. The Department awarded grants to Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institutions that are designed to increase the number and proportion of high-need students who are academically prepared for, enroll in, or complete on time college, other postsecondary education, or other CTE. In the Hispanic-Serving Institutions grant competition, the Department incorporated two competitive preference priorities: one to support tutoring, counseling, and student service programs designed to improve academic success, including innovative and customized instruction courses designed to help retain students and move the students rapidly into core courses and through program completion; and one to develop and implement high-quality online or hybrid credit-bearing learning opportunities that reduce the cost of higher education, reduce time to degree completion, or allow students to progress at their own pace. First in the World grants, discussed in strategic objective 1.2, also support practices that improve college completion. The IES announced a competition to establish a Research Network on Scalable Practices to Support College Completion, and expects to award a grant during the first quarter of FY 2016.

The Department launched a new National Activities Project to study CTE stackable certificates. During the project’s first year, the Department will gather information and convene knowledgeable stakeholders. During the second year, the Department will provide technical assistance to the field. A new CTE innovation program proposed in the FY 2016 budget, the American Technical Training Fund, would support the development and implementation of new models and practices at the local level.

The College Opportunity and Graduation Bonus program, also proposed in the FY 2016 budget, would provide $7 billion in mandatory budget authority over 10 years to support colleges that successfully enroll and graduate a significant number of low- and moderate-income students on time and encourage all institutions to improve their performance.

Many students that enter higher education are not college ready. Improving the community college developmental education system is an important element of improving community college completion. In 2015, the Department launched “Supporting Student Success: Adult Education and Remedial Education Reform in Community Colleges,” a national activity to improve developmental education practices across several states.

The Department cohosted with the White House a College Opportunity Summit on December 4, 2015, focused on completion and affordability, as well as on partnerships between P-12 and higher education to promote educational quality and seamless transitions from high school to college. Almost 300 commitments were announced at the summit to improve college opportunities for young people in communities across the country through college readiness partnerships, college advising, improving STEM learning and degree completion for underrepresented students, and helping more students complete their degrees.

In an effort to scale up successful practices that lead to completion, especially in the area of remedial education, the Department developed communities of practice among minority-serving community colleges. Lead institutions were identified, recruited, and trained. Two communities of practice have been launched as of October 2015. Subsequently, on November 16–17, 2015, approximately 130 minority-serving community colleges met at the Department and exchanged promising practices; received technical assistance from the Department and 13&amp;nbsp;federal agencies; and heard from leading authorities in the fields of minority-serving institution research, philanthropy, and student success strategies. Several colleges stepped forward to join the other lead colleges in growing the communities of practice that will continue the capacity-building dialogue with the federal agencies. &amp;nbsp;

The Department achieved its performance target for metric 1.3.A with an educational attainment rate of 45.7&amp;nbsp;percent. The Department also achieved its performance targets for metric 1.3.B with a retention rate of 72.9 percent for full-time students and metric 1.3.C with a retention rate of 43.1 percent for part-time students. Given the Department’s limited ability to impact retention rates overall, the Department proposes alternative metrics to replace 1.3.B and 1.3.C for FY 2016.
</Strategic_Objective_Progress_Update></Strategic_Objective><Strategic_Goals><Strategic_Goal><id>499</id><strategic_goal_header>Postsecondary Education, Career and Technical Education, and Adult Education</strategic_goal_header><strategic_goal_statement>Increase college access, affordability, quality, and completion by improving postsecondary education and lifelong learning opportunities for youths and adults.
</strategic_goal_statement><strategic_goal_overview>Dramatically boosting completion rates for bachelor’s and associate degrees is essential for Americans to compete in a global economy. The President thus set a goal in 2009—that, by 2020, the U.S. will have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. Meeting this goal will require millions of additional Americans to earn a bachelor’s or an associate degree or certificate by the end of this decade—a 50 percent increase nationwide. The President has also challenged every American to complete at least one year of higher education or career training—at a two- or four-year postsecondary institution, or through a vocational training program or apprenticeship.
 
The President’s agenda for postsecondary reform calls for a spirit of shared responsibility in addressing college access, affordability, quality, and the imperative for students to complete their certificates or degrees. Neither the federal government alone, nor any other single sector, can make the investments or create changes needed to move our country forward. This work requires unprecedented collaboration and innovation.
 
And, increased college enrollment is not enough. To advance the nation toward achieving the 2020 goal, institutions of higher education must ensure that students successfully complete with degrees and certificates. In addition, as part of its career and technical education (CTE) transformation strategy, the Department must help support state- and industry-led efforts to introduce students to careers and provide them with the knowledge and skills to enter technical fields. Furthermore, to ensure a sustainable national economy, the Department should work with the National Science Foundation and other agencies to help colleges and universities increase the enrollment and completion rates of students with degrees and certificates in fields related to science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM).
 
The Department must ensure that all students—recent high school graduates and adult learners alike—are well prepared for college and careers, help more of them enroll in postsecondary education, and increase the number of those who complete programs of study with a degree or certificate.
 
Prior to entering postsecondary education, prospective students need easily accessible information on the cost of attendance, career placement and graduation rates, college loan default rates, earnings of graduates, public-service and private-sector opportunities, loan management options, and other subjects crucial to understanding the affordability and value of the postsecondary institutions and/or programs of study that they are considering. Students deserve to know that, whether they enter a college, university, postsecondary career training program, or adult education program, the credential they earn will be affordable and its value will be recognized as an indication that they possess the necessary knowledge and skills for success in the workplace and in life.
 
Providing federal student aid in a simple, reliable, and efficient manner is the main way that the Department supports college access, affordability, quality, and completion. In FY 2012, the Department delivered nearly $142 billion in grants, work-study, and loan assistance to approximately 15 million postsecondary students and their families. These students attended approximately 6,200 institutions of postsecondary education accredited by dozens of agencies. In addition, the Department administers $2 billion annually in grants to strengthen postsecondary institutions and promote college readiness, and another $2 billion in grant funds for CTE, adult education (including literacy and citizenship education), and correctional education to help adults secure the skills that equip them for work, civic participation, and lifelong learning.
 
The Department has already taken significant steps to increase college access, affordability, quality, and completion. Through the SAFRA Act, passed as part of the Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (HCERA), Congress ended student loan subsidies to banks, saving billions of dollars that are now used for financial aid through the Pell Grant program and for reducing borrowers’ monthly repayment amounts. Resources developed by the Department, such as the College Affordability and Transparency Center, the Financial Aid Shopping Sheet, the College Scorecard, and a consolidated student aid website from the Department’s Federal Student Aid (FSA) office (www.studentaid.gov), now provide students and families with better tools for informed decision-making. Additionally, as generally described in FSA’s Five Year Strategic Plan for FY 2012-16, FSA recently launched two new products.  The first product is the Financial Aid Toolkit, which provides free and ready-made resources online for organizations wishing to engage students about financial aid.  The second is the Financial Awareness Counseling Tool (FACT), an online, interactive loan counseling tool that helps students and families better manage their finances and understand their financial obligations as borrowers.  FSA initiated the Integrated Student Experience (ISE) initiative to establish an integrated, customer-focused web experience for students, parents and borrowers to facilitate decision-making about funding postsecondary education.  Finally, the Department has simplified the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) so it is easier and faster for students to apply for aid.
 
During the next four years, the Department will build on these efforts to ensure that all Americans, regardless of background, will have the opportunity to access and complete an affordable postsecondary degree or other postsecondary credential.
How will we measure success?  
 
The Department will use the following indicators to measure its success in improving college access and affordability, college completion, academic quality, and STEM pathway opportunities.
 
Postsecondary Education, Career and Technical Education, and Adult Education Indicators of Success
 
Reduce rate of increase in average net price of public two- and four-year institutions
Decrease number of low-performing institutions
Increase degree attainment among 25-34 year old age cohort
Increase retention rate of first-time degree-seeking undergraduates
Increase number of STEM postsecondary credentials awarded
Percent of high school seniors filing a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
Increase the national earnings of adults and transition-age youth with disabilities, including those with significant disabilities
Increase the number of  stakeholders, including Vocational Rehabilitation State Directors and other State Vocational Rehabilitation staff who express knowledge of NIDRR[1] grantee research
Increase the number of NIDRR supported grantee projects providing training to stakeholders on disability issues
 
What could hold us back?  What’s beyond our control?  (External Risk Factors)
The Department will encourage states and institutions of higher education to adopt policies and strategies to improve student outcomes and even out or minimize increases in the cost of tuition, books, and related items. Success will depend, to some degree, on the extent to which states and institutions (a) implement policies and programs to increase student retention and persistence to graduation, (b) accelerate college completion, (c) offer dual high school and postsecondary enrollments, (d) develop and use online, open‑source materials, (e) better align high school completion and postsecondary entrance requirements, (f) better align transfer requirements that lead to baccalaureate degrees, and (g) invest in higher education at the state level.  The Department has limited ability to influence such outcomes without new programs that are specifically structured to drive this kind of change. In addition, modifications to statewide longitudinal and other data systems are necessary to better track the nation’s progress in improving access to postsecondary education, completion of postsecondary degrees and certificates, and success in the workforce and society.  Finally, high-quality technical assistance is needed to address the limited capacity of states and school districts to advance programs in high-need areas, such as STEM.
The nation also sorely needs the reauthorization of key federal legislation, including the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), the Workforce Investment Act (WIA), the Higher Education Act (HEA), and the Career and Technical Education Act (CTEA), in order to support the implementation of more rigorous high school standards and postsecondary and adult education reforms that will increase student achievement and career and civic success.  Moreover, postsecondary institutions must increase their capacity to serve the growing number of Americans who require education and/or training beyond high school to compete in the workplace, particularly the tens of millions of Americans who have basic literacy and workforce training needs.  In an economy where state funding for higher education is threatened, institutions are struggling to serve more students with fewer resources.  In addition, many students arrive at college unprepared for college-level work. This need for remediation diverts resources that would be better directed toward supporting students’ persistence in and completion of their education.  To be effective in all of these areas, postsecondary institutions must continue to find ways to be innovative and productive in providing educational services—even as they collaborate with the pre-K – 12 sector to improve the college- and career-readiness of learners.
Historically, as unemployment rates decline, the number of young adults immediately pursuing a postsecondary education decreases.  This, in turn, potentially decreases FAFSA completion rates. In addition, other economic factors contributed to the large and likely unsustainable increases in FAFSA submissions for several cycles through 2012.  With a still-improving economy, completion rates have yet to stabilize and may affect overall FAFSA completion rates.  To address these external factors, the Department and FSA will continue to focus efforts on increasing FAFSA accessibility and ease of use.  To ensure a positive experience for users, FSA will enhance partnerships with states, federal agencies, nonprofits, and the private sector to ensure a positive experience for users.
 
[1] National Institute on Disabilities and Rehabilitation Research.
</strategic_goal_overview><themes></themes></Strategic_Goal></Strategic_Goals><Agency_Priority_Goals></Agency_Priority_Goals></data>