"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Mission Statement","Agency Overview","Stakeholder Engagement","Agency Head Name","Agency Head Title","Agency Website URL","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL","Agency Strategic Plan URL ","Annual Performance Plan URL","Annual Performance Report URL ","Agency Website URL, USAID","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL, USAID","Agency Strategic Plan URL, USAID ","Annual Performance Plan URL, USAID","Annual Performance Report URL, USAID"
"Department of State and USAID","014","DOSUSAID","The shared mission of the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) is to shape and sustain a peaceful, prosperous, just, and democratic world, and foster conditions for stability and progress for the benefit of the American people and people everywhere.

The Department and USAID have developed a strategic approach to accomplish their shared mission that focuses on robust diplomacy and development as central to solving global problems. The Department and USAID’s 2010 Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review (QDDR) described this approach as a comprehensive effort to identify the capabilities needed to strengthen and elevate diplomacy and development as key pillars of the national security strategy, alongside defense.  The 2015 QDDR builds on the foundation established by the 2010 review as a part of the Department and USAID’s processes of continuous improvement, with a focus on emerging policy and management priorities.

For additional information on programs of the Department of State and USAID, please see the Congressional Budget Justification Volume 1: Department of State Operations and the Congressional Budget Justification Executive Summary for Function 150 & Other International Programs. 
","The Department of State is the lead U.S. foreign affairs agency within the Executive Branch and the lead institution for the conduct of American diplomacy.  The head of the Department, the Secretary of State, is the President’s principal foreign policy advisor. The Secretary implements the President’s foreign policies worldwide through the State Department and its employees.  The Department of State promotes and protects the interests of American citizens by:


	Promoting peace and stability in regions of vital interest;
	Creating jobs at home by opening markets abroad;
	Helping developing nations establish investment and export opportunities; and
	Bringing nations and people together and forging partnerships to address global challenges, such as climate change and resource scarcity, nuclear proliferation, terrorism, gender inequality, human trafficking, the spread of communicable diseases, cross-border pollution, humanitarian crises, nuclear smuggling, and narcotics trafficking.


The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) is an independent federal agency that receives overall foreign policy guidance from the Secretary of State.  In 1961, Congress passed the Foreign Assistance Act to administer long-range economic and humanitarian assistance to developing countries.  Two months after passage of the act, President John F. Kennedy established USAID.  USAID’s mission is to partner to end extreme poverty and promote resilient, democratic societies while advancing our security and prosperity.  The Agency accelerates human progress in developing countries by:


	Promoting broadly shared economic prosperity;
	Strengthening democracy and good governance and protecting human rights;
	Improving global health, 
	Advancing food security and agriculture; 
	Improving environmental sustainability;
	Furthering education; and
	Helping societies prevent and recover from conflicts and providing humanitarian assistance in the wake of natural and man-made disasters.


USAID is headed by an Administrator appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate.  USAID plans its development and assistance programs in coordination with the Department of State, and collaborates with other U.S. government agencies, multilateral and bilateral organizations, private companies, academic institutions, and non-governmental organizations.
","The Department of State and USAID developed this Joint Strategic Plan through a consultation process involving the senior leaders of the two agencies. Their deliberations, shaped by Presidential directives and policies, previous strategic planning efforts, and the 2010 Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review produced the strategic goals and strategic objectives for the next four years. Working groups comprised of representatives from both agencies took these goals and objectives and assembled information that describes the programs and activities designed to achieve them. They then set them out in a paper which was circulated for comment and clearance within the two agencies.  The Department and USAID have consulted with other government agencies on the Joint Strategic Plan and also engaged their Congressional oversight committees to explain the goals and objectives and integrated their views into this planning effort.
","John F. Kerry , Gayle E. Smith ","Secretary of State, USAID Administrator","http://www.state.gov","http://www.state.gov/s/d/rm/c6113.htm","http://www.state.gov/s/d/rm/rls/dosstrat/2014/index.htm ","http://www.state.gov/s/d/rm/rls/perfplan/2016app/index.htm","http://www.state.gov/s/d/rm/rls/perfplan/2016app/index.htm","http://www.usaid.gov","http://www.usaid.gov/results-and-data/performance-reporting","http://www.usaid.gov/results-and-data/performance-reporting","http://www.usaid.gov/results-and-data/performance-reporting","http://www.usaid.gov/results-and-data/progress-data/annual-performance-report"
