"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Mission Statement","Agency Overview","Stakeholder Engagement","Agency Head Name","Agency Head Title","Agency Website URL","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL","Agency Strategic Plan URL ","Annual Performance Plan URL","Annual Performance Report URL "
"National Science Foundation","422","NSF","The National Science Foundation (NSF) is an independent federal agency that supports fundamental research and education across all fields of science and engineering. The NSF Act of 1950 (Public Law 81-507) sets forth our mission: ""To promote the progress of science; to advance the national health, prosperity and welfare; and to secure the national defense."" The agency fulfills its mission mainly by issuing limited-term grants (currently about 11,000 new awards per year) to support research by individuals or small groups of investigators, research centers, and instruments and facilities that allow scientists, engineers and students to work at the outermost frontiers of knowledge. Awards are made for research that has been judged most promising by a thorough and objective merit review system.

As described in our strategic plan, NSF is the only federal agency whose mission includes support for all fields of fundamental science and engineering, except for medical sciences. NSF is tasked with keeping the U.S. at the leading edge of discovery in a wide range of scientific and engineering areas.
","History

In 1945, Vannevar Bush, head of the Office of Scientific Research and Development, wrote a landmark report, ""Science--The Endless Frontier."" The report stressed the importance of new scientific knowledge for the economic, social and military well-being of the nation, and that the federal government had the responsibility to see this through. The report recommended the establishment of a foundation to oversee federal funding for basic scientific research and the training of men and women in science. Bush also encouraged actively promoting the international exchange of scientific information. In 1950, Congress passed Public Law 81-507 creating the National Science Foundation (NSF) and NSF has been funding advances and discoveries in science ever since.

NSF: Where Discoveries Begin

NSF's strategic plan for fiscal years 2011 to 2016 defines our vision: ""A nation that capitalizes on new concepts in science and engineering (S&E) and provides global leadership in advancing research and education."" For more than 60 years, NSF has identified and funded research in new scientific frontiers. Many of the resulting discoveries and technological advances have been truly revolutionary. NSF-funded scientists or research teams discovered many of the fundamental particles of matter, analyzed the cosmic microwaves left over from the earliest epoch of the universe, developed carbon-14 dating of ancient artifacts, decoded the genetics of viruses, and created an entirely new state of matter called a Bose-Einstein condensate.

NSF’s continued commitment to supporting a wide range of scientific fields and disciplines will help secure and sustain U.S. competitiveness and economic growth. Similarly, NSF’s strong support for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education at all levels will provide the nation with a globally competitive workforce now and in the future.

NSF-funded research has led to many new technologies that are used on a daily basis like barcodes, the Internet (including the world's first, freely available web browser, Mosaic), and wireless technology that revolutionized the cellphone industry.

NSF also funds major research equipment used by scientists and engineers including giant optical and radio telescopes, Antarctic research stations, high-end computer facilities and ultra-high-speed connections, ships for ocean research, sensitive detectors of very subtle physical phenomena and gravitational wave observatories.

Another essential element in NSF's mission is support for education in science, technology, enginering, and mathematics, from pre-Kindergarten through graduate school and beyond. NSF thoroughly integrates research with education to help ensure that there will always be plenty of skilled people available to work in new and emerging scientific, engineering and technological fields, and plenty of capable teachers to educate the next generation.

In the past few decades, NSF has supported at least 197 Nobel Laureates at some point in their careers—including almost 70 percent of U.S. recipients, as well as other honors too numerous to list.

Promoting partnerships is one of NSF's core strategies. NSF supports collaborative projects with academic institutions, private industry, and state and local government; works closely with other federal agencies in cross-cutting areas of research and education; and supports U.S. participation in international scientific efforts.

NSF By the Numbers


	In 1951, NSF's initial budget was just $225,000. As of fiscal year 2012, NSF's budget is $7.0 billion.
	NSF funds reach all 50 states through grants to nearly 2,000 colleges, universities and other institutions.
	NSF is the funding source for approximately 20 percent of all federally supported basic research conducted by America’s colleges and universities. In many fields such as mathematics, computer science and the social sciences, NSF is the major source of federal backing.
	Each year, NSF receives over 50,000 competitive requests for funding, and makes about 11,000 new funding awards. NSF also awards nearly $420 million in professional and service contracts yearly. 


 
","To gauge progress toward NSF’s strategic and performance goals, NSF’s most recent Strategic Plan, “Empowering the Nation Through Discovery and Innovation: NSF Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years (FY) 2011-2016,” establishes a framework for evaluation and assessment that builds upon longstanding NSF processes and also embraces new approaches. This framework has at its core NSF’s tradition of relying on guidance and input from the research and education community—through the merit review process, COVs, the agency’s network of advisory committees, and formal reviews and evaluations by external experts.


	Merit Review: NSF’s approach to merit review is recognized internationally as a best practice for review, assessment, and selection of projects. The merit review process helps assure that awards made by NSF are of the highest quality, are relevant to our strategic goals and objectives, and have an appropriate balance for the resulting portfolio.
	Committees of Visitors: Each COV consists of external experts in science and engineering research and education who review actions taken on proposals for one or more NSF programs. COVs conduct detailed reviews of the materials associated with individual proposal actions. They assess the integrity and efficiency of the system for proposal review.
	Advisory Committees: Directorates, offices, and some Foundation-wide programs have ACs composed of external experts. ACs not only review COV reports and examine directorate and office responses to COV recommendations, but they also provide advice on priorities and program effectiveness.
	Other Reviews and Evaluations: NSF pays careful attention to the advice offered in reports by the National Academies, national and international science organizations, professional societies, workshops, interagency working groups, advisory committees, and the National Science Board. NSF also employs a range of approaches to gain feedback on the efficiency and effectiveness of its systems and processes. Formal approaches include the testing of NSF systems against Federal standards such as those established by the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA). Other methods used include periodic surveys of applicants for NSF funding to gauge overall satisfaction, as well as surveys of NSF staff for feedback on NSF’s internal services, systems, and working environment.


 To develop the FY 2011-FY 2016 Plan, NSF formed a working group consisting of office and directorate deputies and others. This working group received input from NSF staff and from NSF’s many advisory committee members representing the science and engineering community.  House Science Committee and Senate Commerce Committee staff were briefed on the content of this Plan during its development and given the opportunity for comment.

NSF's performance goals, including its Priority Goals, are part of its Budget Requests, and as such are subject to the same extensive stakeholder engagement processes.  
","France A. Córdova","Director","http://www.nsf.gov","http://www.nsf.gov/about/performance/","http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2014/nsf14043/nsf14043.pdf","http://www.nsf.gov/about/budget/fy2017/pdf/57_fy2017.pdf","http://www.nsf.gov/about/budget/fy2017/pdf/56_fy2017.pdf"
