"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Mission Statement","Agency Overview","Stakeholder Engagement","Agency Head Name","Agency Head Title","Agency Website URL","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL","Agency Strategic Plan URL ","Annual Performance Plan URL","Annual Performance Report URL "
"Department of Transportation","021","DOT","The Department of Transportation's mission is to serve the United States by ensuring a fast, safe, efficient, accessible and convenient transportation system that meets our vital national interests and enhances the quality of life of the American people, today and into the future.
","Established in 1967 by Congress, DOT consolidated more than 30 transportation agencies and functions, including the U.S. Coast Guard, Bureau of Public Roads, and Federal Aviation Agency, under the first Secretary of Transportation Alan S. Boyd. Today, over 57,000 DOT employees work in the Offices of the Secretary of Transportation, the Office of the Inspector General, ten Operating Administrations, and the Surface Transportation Board.

The Operating Administrations are listed below.  More information about DOT is available at http://www.dot.gov/about and at the Web sites of each Operating Administration.

Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)

Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)

Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA)

Federal Railroad Administration (FRA)

Federal Transit Administration (FTA)

Maritime Administration (MARAD)

National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA)

Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA)

Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation (SLSDC)

According to the US Census, the U.S. population is projected to increase to 332 million by 2017, a 70 percent increase since 1967.  The national economy is on the rebound and personal travel continues to increase, albeit at a somewhat slower pace than prior to the 2008 recession.  Industries and consumers depend increasingly on the reliable and timely flow of goods and services within and across our Nation’s borders.

Population growth in cities and mega-regions is placing a strain on existing transportation systems and creating demand for more transportation choices.  As people continue to increase their demand for vibrant communities, creating livable communities with safe, reliable, and affordable transportation choices for all users is essential to ensuring economic vitality and growth. The increasing amount and availability of information, as well as more rapid emergence and adoption of new technologies, is transforming all aspects of our daily life including how we travel to work and spend our leisure time. Utilizing emerging technology, maintaining and improving existing transportation infrastructure, and ensuring multimodal options for the movement of goods and people ensures reliable performance of the transportation system; a system critical to attracting the strong workforce that makes a community thrive.

In response to these trends, this second edition of the DOT strategic plan, Transportation for a New Generation, outlines the approach that we are undertaking to achieve our strategic goals and implement the President’s priorities for Fiscal Year (FY) 2014-2018.  We are acting under the authorities that the Congress and the President have provided the Secretary of Transportation.



 


","Pursuant to the development of the US DOT Strategic Plan, DOT officials briefed Congressional staff on the goals and strategies laid out in the draft plan in order to receive feedback from those offices. Responses from the Hill were reviewed and incorporated in the report as appropriate.  We have sought vast public input in developing this strategic plan.  More than 300 ideas and suggestions were submitted during an online dialogue.  We made revisions to an earlier draft based on the suggestions.
","Anthony Foxx","Secretary Department of Transportation","http://www.dot.gov","http://www.dot.gov/mission/budget/dot-annual-budget-and-performance-archive ","http://www.dot.gov/dot-strategic-plan ","http://www.transportation.gov/mission/budget/fy2017-annual-performance-plan-fy-2015-perf-report","http://www.transportation.gov/mission/budget/fy2017-annual-performance-plan-fy-2015-perf-report"
