"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Mission Statement","Agency Overview","Stakeholder Engagement","Agency Head Name","Agency Head Title","Agency Website URL","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL","Agency Strategic Plan URL ","Annual Performance Plan URL","Annual Performance Report URL "
"Department of Health and Human Services","009","HHS","The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) mission is to enhance the health and well-being of Americans by providing for effective health and human services and by fostering sound, sustained advances in the sciences underlying medicine, public health, and social services.
","The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is the United States government's principal agency for protecting the health of all Americans and providing essential human services, especially for those who are least able to help themselves.

HHS represents almost a quarter of all federal outlays and administers more grant dollars than all other federal agencies combined. HHS’s Medicare program is the nation’s largest health insurer, handling more than 1 billion claims per year. Medicare and Medicaid together provide health care insurance for one in four Americans.

HHS works closely with state and local governments, and many HHS-funded services are provided at the local level by state or county agencies, or through private sector grantees. The Department supports more than 300 programs, covering a wide spectrum of activities administered by 11 operating divisions. In addition to delivering services, HHS programs support the collection of health data and provide for the equitable treatment in health care and human service settings. The Department’s activities include:


	Health, biomedical, and social science research;
	Health promotion and community-based health programs;
	Disease prevention, including immunization services;
	Assuring food and drug safety;
	Health insurance for Americans, including elderly and disabled Americans, individuals with pre-existing conditions, low-income people and others through Medicare, Medicaid, the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Health Insurance Exchanges, Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plans and other programs;
	Health information technology;
	Public health infrastructure;
	Financial assistance and services for low-income families;
	Maternal and infant health programs;
	Early childhood development programs;
	Child abuse and domestic violence prevention;
	Substance abuse and mental health services;
	Services for older Americans, including home-delivered meals;
	Comprehensive health services for Native Americans; and
	Medical preparedness for emergencies, including potential terrorism.


With the passage of the Affordable Care Act, HHS has been moving forward to implement the law and help improve the health of millions of Americans. The law puts in place comprehensive reforms that protect Americans from the worst insurance company abuses, makes health insurance more affordable, provides better access to care and coverage, and strengthens Medicare.

For example, HHS is working with states to establish new transparent and competitive insurance marketplaces called Affordable Insurance Exchanges where, beginning in 2014, individuals and small businesses can compare their coverage options and buy affordable health coverage. Additionally, many important benefits and protections have already gone into effect, helping millions get the coverage they need and putting Americans back in charge of their health care. Because of the law:


	Young adults can stay on their parent’s plan until age 26,
	Health plans cannot limit or deny benefits or deny coverage for a child younger than age 19 because of a pre-existing condition,
	A health insurance policy cannot be canceled because of a simple mistake on an application, and lifetime dollar limits on most benefits are banned for all new health insurance plans, and
	New standards for medical loss ratio and rate review ensure consumers get value for their premium dollars and that proposed rate increases are based on reasonable cost assumptions and solid evidence.


Transforming the health care system, which includes implementing the Affordable Care Act, is a cornerstone of the HHS Strategic Plan. The current Strategic Plan outlines HHS’s main objectives and performance measures to monitor our progress. Additional metrics are available in the HHS Online Performance Appendix.

To ensure public access and transparency, HHS launched www.HealthCare.gov on July 1, 2010. The site has been visited more than 10 million times since it launched. The site includes extensive, easy to understand information about the health care law, including new rights and protections, coverage options, and how the Affordable Care Act will help consumers.

The website is the first of its kind to bring information and links to health insurance plans and other coverage options into one place, making it easy for consumers to learn about their insurance choices. And on November 18, 2011, HHS added a unique tool to allow small businesses to research and compare locally available insurance plans in an unbiased manner. As a result, small businesses now have easy access to plan data, such as out-of-pocket limits, average cost per enrollee, available deductibles and co-pay options (including services that are not covered and benefits available for purchase at additional costs), Health Savings Account eligibility, and more.

HealthCare.gov also gives consumers the tools they need to make the best decisions for themselves and their families, like information about rate increases. HealthCare.gov also provides details about the 80-20 rule (which requires insurers to spend at least 80 cents of every dollar on customers’ health care or quality improvements to it). A Spanish language version of the website (www.cuidadodesalud.gov) was launched on September 8, 2010.

In order to ensure a robust system of monitoring and evaluation as well as government transparency and accountability, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation has designed a Health System Tracking Project. The Health System Tracking Project is a dynamic, web-based tool that displays data on key health indicators, compiled from across federal sources, along with descriptions of the measures and links to data sources. Good metrics will allow policymakers, providers and the public to monitor changes in health care quality, cost and access and enable them to understand the effects of these changes across the health care system.

In keeping with its commitment to transparency and accountability, HHS launched a new 10-year agenda for Healthy People 2020 in December 2010. Healthy People 2020 represents the fourth generation of decade-long disease prevention and health promotion goals for the nation. Its science-based, measurable objectives benchmark the nation’s health at the beginning of the decade, set 10-year targets, and help monitor and track progress over time. Tracking data, interventions, and other resources are easily accessible at the redesigned healthypeople.gov website. HHS developed Healthy People 2020 through a collaborative process that drew on expertise and input across multiple Federal agencies, state and local governments, academia, business, community and professional organizations, and members of the public.
","HHS developed the Strategic Plan with contributions from each of the Department’s Operating and Staff Divisions as well as coordination with Congress, the Office of Management and Budget and other stakeholders. The process emphasized creating alignment between the long-range Strategic Plan and annual GPRA reporting in the Department’s Congressional Budget Justifications and Annual Performance Plan.  It also included the Department’s Priority Goal establishment focused on quarterly data-driven reviews with HHS senior staff and counselors to monitor progress on achieving these key performance goals.  These, in combination with efforts to improve the outcomes of services, research, and administration, support the Department’s collaboration with health care organizations and professionals across governmental, nongovernmental, and private partners.
","Sylvia Mathews Burwell","Secretary","http://www.hhs.gov","http://www.hhs.gov/budget/","http://www.hhs.gov/strategic-plan/priorities.html","http://www.hhs.gov/about/budget/#performance","http://www.hhs.gov/about/budget/#performance"
