"Agency Name","Agency Code","Agency Acronym","Mission Statement","Agency Overview","Stakeholder Engagement","Agency Head Name","Agency Head Title","Agency Website URL","Agency Plans & Reports Page URL","Agency Strategic Plan URL ","Annual Performance Plan URL","Annual Performance Report URL "
"Department of Education","018","ED","The U.S. Department of Education's mission is to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal access.

President Obama’s vision is that by 2020, America will once again have the best-educated, most competitive workforce in the world with the highest proportion of college graduates of any country.  To do this, the United States must also close the achievement and opportunity gaps so that all youth—regardless of their backgrounds—graduate from high school ready to succeed in college and careers.

 

Specifically, ED's 4,400 employees and $68 billion budget are dedicated to:


	Establishing policies on federal financial aid for education, and distributing as well as monitoring those funds.
	Collecting data on America's schools and disseminating research.
	Focusing national attention on key educational issues.
	Prohibiting discrimination and ensuring equal access to education.

","The Department operates programs that touch on every area and level of education.  The Department's elementary and secondary programs annually serve nearly 14,000 school districts and approximately 55 million students attending some 99,000 public schools and 33,000 private schools.  Department programs also provide grant, loan, and work-study assistance to more than 15 million postsecondary students.  In the past three years, the Department has worked to successfully streamline and consolidate programs from kindergarten through college to save taxpayer dollars, improve efficiency, reduce administrative expenses, and better serve states, schools, students, and families.

The U.S. Department of Education Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2014–2018 provides a
framework for the key policy and operational priorities for the agency, in alignment with the
administration’s vision for education and in collaboration with Congress, state and local
partners, and other education stakeholders. From its mission and core values, the plan was
developed by building upon and updating the FY 2011–14 Strategic Plan. It comprises six
foundational strategic goals and six priority goals. The updated plan for FY 2014–18 includes
the same six strategic goals as the Department’s previous plan. These six goals will help to
align the administration’s annual budget requests and the Department’s legislative agenda.
The Department’s FY 2014–18 Strategic Plan stands on a foundation of six strategic goals:


	Goal 1: Postsecondary Education, Career and Technical Education, and Adult Education.
	Increase college access, affordability, quality, and completion by improving postsecondary education and lifelong learning opportunities for youths and adults.
	Goal 2: Elementary and Secondary Education.
	Improve the elementary and secondary education system’s ability to consistently deliver excellent instruction aligned with rigorous academic standards while providing effective support services to close achievement and opportunity gaps, and ensure all students graduate high school college- and career-ready.
	Goal 3: Early Learning.
	Improve the health, social-emotional, and cognitive outcomes for all children from birth through 3rd grade, so that all children, particularly those with high needs, are on track for graduating from high school college- and career-ready.
	Goal 4: Equity.
	Increase educational opportunities for underserved students and reduce discrimination so that all students are well-positioned to succeed.
	Goal 5: Continuous Improvement of the U.S. Education System.
	Enhance the education system’s ability to continuously improve through better and more widespread use of data, research and evaluation, evidence, transparency, innovation, and technology.
	Goal 6: U.S. Department of Education Capacity.
	Improve the organizational capacities of the Department to implement the Strategic Plan.


To view information on all Department programs, please visit www.ed.gov.
","Accomplishing all of the Strategic Plan's priorities will require tireless efforts from Department staff working with Congress and the White House, partners at the state and local levels, and all other stakeholders.  Specific strategies for engaging stakeholders for each of ED's Agency Priority Goals are included on their ""Overview"" pages.
","John B. King, Jr.","Acting Secretary","http://www.ed.gov","http://www2.ed.gov/about/reports/annual/index.html","http://www2.ed.gov/about/reports/strat/plan2014-18/strategic-plan.pdf","http://www2.ed.gov/about/reports/annual/2017plan/2015-2017-apr-app.pdf","http://www2.ed.gov/about/reports/annual/2017plan/2015-2017-apr-app.pdf"
